gren Research & Develogment Department August 4, 1978 DUPONT CIRCLE SUBJICTIVE COMPARISON OF MIDDCE EAST FALL MALL VS. MARLBORO Marlooro was compared 'head or. to Pall Mall (Middle East) by 94 Eull-flavored 1. Marlboro was significantly preferred over the Pall Mall. 2. Mariboro was significantly less irritating than Pall Mall. More panelists fcund Pail Mall more irritating, and those who did so indicated higher degrees of irritation (5-point -3. The Pall Mall received a greater numbor of nogative taste/ 4. In general, the panelists were evenly divided with regard to satisfaction. However, those panelists who chose Marlboro as the more satisfying cigarette did so with slightly greater degrees of satisfaction than did those 5. There were no noticeable differences in physical properties On a competitive besis, the Pall Mall by cur domestic standard does not effectively stand up against Marlboro. The Pall Mall has met same of its markcting objectives. It was perceived as having nare "ocmpf" than Marlboro, as évidenced by the irritation and taste comments. It is important to remémber that this is a 20-mg tar cigarette. This panel cannot fully reflect the merit of Pall Mall because the product. was designed for an smokers. There were five major findings: scale). flavor coments than Marlboro. who chose Pall Mall. (burn rate, loose ends, etc.). international market. METHOD OF TESTING On Day 1, panclists picked up 3 packs of Varlboro (942, 962) and 3 packs of Pall Mall (942, 952) along with a questionnaire (Form I). ialf the parelists were requested to moke one pack of Pall Mall first and the other half of the panelists, Marlboro. Panclists wcre inctructed to retn their questionnaires on Thursday or Friday of the same week. Of the 94 smokers, 24 were scheduled for a me-on-one 45-minute debriefing Thuraday or Friday. All panelists were instructed to take notes on any aspects or characteristics of the cigarettes, whether subtle or outstand- inc. The following table gives the brands snoked by the panelists. - - 