CM VP CONSUMER MAIL PANEL (1-5533, poar Parpl M.TILr: Today I woild like to get sone irtcrnacica anoue tho ciyarecte snoking characteristics of all serbars in your hsusehold. The ettached labei shows, eceerding to reccrds, Llie sex and ACR stevory person in your houserold. This inforation ia fran ny 71e:. and a roaliza that 1: 1L,29L be estirely, cortvet. So I'E1 nees your bip to nake any correctiors rendes. Write chax dicec:lr on the tabel. Cross cut any srhr intoruucion an the label. Replace it with correntsu infornaticn. Aidscmeone if they are not listed. Cross oLt anycne who ie 1astes Liac is net prensacly iiving ia your rouseneld. hiso eross euc anyore who voula narmally b: conaidered aa tiving at rone uno ia not available (ie. at acheellen vacat! ion) Lo - NEED YOUR E:P: 7o PACVIDE KE WITE A CORRET AJD AIRATE LISTING oF THE SEX ANT AGE DF AL: Hucciu: MLMBLRE tit TEARS OLE ANE CLEEA PRZEEITEY IVIGU AT NONE. sees ot enaia quasciens are cifferent tra otnars - rave auced yo beiore. Please =ead all the instratioas caretully betore yos fill out the q4:stionnaire. I't LIKS YCU TO INCT AS XY INTERTIEWER TODAY. Berause your "ve tiiles oue ay questionnaires s0 well in the past, I'd 1ie ts aek : to sse that exper: ence and interview the noiners o: yot hyedaals. I7 EE IPPORTANT THAT you AGX QUESTIGN EACH HOES SCPOLS NCBER FATHER THAN ESIYING d ODR CUESS. BEot o! Ehe QuCati5as are qAsci ian. aus in abl, 0 FA Finings te i-aslt/serself. Uiat ast Is essentlal yuu EnE persoa liere is what I woul : Cin uut aixut wvery sersen in your nousehoid, nale and fenal le, who is 16 yeare o! age or idor inaluding yeuroelf) 1. Whether thoy ng4 OE hare s mcked eigarettea. 1. rha branas, 0s and ypes ot cigarettes eney aoke MAN, or have amoked in the past. The two nost iaportant pieces of irfermarion you will be aeked to record tor anckera ex-snckers are FULL BRAND MAKE ard LENCTH or CISARETIE. As you knov, many nev cigarettss have become available in the past to nany different ones ace available, it' "s very enay 5o get chen contused. year or so. Because Please record the conplete brand nane. af n:h cigarette anked about. E Mariboro is difterant than Marlboro Lighte; Tarevton is different than example, or Tarayton altre Lov: Xcol is difterent than Kool Milds, Kool Lights or Tareyton Knol Lighta Piease record the brand nanes the same way they are shoun on the packages thenseives. Ultra. Vhen recording the brand - permon is ourrently amoking, there atould be no problen since their rack nay bu should sone confusion. be available. In Por arands that have boon smoked in the at, hawever, recall. LE vill be nore helpful for this us case to record hare the brand nane at hest the enoker an Agair, tweer because esore are eo many eigarestes availablu, surretines the only twc cigarettos is the lenjti. thiy diftoronce in length ia hovever. xt the bottoe of the next tvo pages 1a guide to halp very whan inporlane tome, ne abott the length of the cigace:te yon are referring to. Fleaee ank ach shokker and ex- anoker to malch his/her current or torner crawings below the questinns Xhich ever draving comea closent Lo tle lungta eigare:te or their. to che cigarette, withuut overlapping the end of the draxi ing. is the tength in the question yau are answering. IE you or tte menter you axe interviewing thatyos ahouid"* are nure or che lengin ot a pAut cigarette, please recoxd the length as best you or not can vith this questinnnafre you will eleo find an additional inctruction sheet. It ie oxtrenely inportant tor you to read those instructicns. shou specific examples of aitforent aituations and hov to ansver and 1. FULL BRAND NAME partial infornatien than none st all. 2. LENGIN s CIGARETTE be- dicterences you yoa're telliay recall. thay Thcr DI then, 