TRA AND: OUGIATI senherg D. el al: cal the treatahle. 1971 1W, Shields WE inuing care. Husp 19, 1974 ing tranquilivers: : in the treatment fed): Community enic in. Chemical ta Medica, 1973 lare EH: Dopsy. drugs? Br J Psy- Du psychiutric tr J Psychitry Experience withi ophrenie patients King MII (oft Schirphrenic in :dam. Evcernta neuroleption and health servic es. Management of Remission. Am- Nicotine: Cotinine Levels in Blood During Phillip Zeidenberg, Jerome H. Jaffe. Maureeen Kanzler, Morton D. Levitt, ROLE OF NICOTINE as a primary reinforcen and of nicotine as a factor in maintaining cigarette smoking behavior has been recently reviewed by Jarvik. In this paper, we present an exploration of the. rela- tionship between. the amount of nicotine in cigarettes smoked per day, serum Cotinine IS the major nicotine metabolite. In contrast to the short half-life of nicotine itself. the hall-lile of cotinine in blood is far longer (30 hr versus 30 min, than that of nicotine, 2-5 and colinine levels remain fairly constant in individuuls who smoke according to a consistent puttern. 2.4,: On this basis, we felt that serum levels of cotinine would be a better index of the degree of chronic nicotinism than measures of the parent alkaloid. Cotinine is approximately 50 times less toxic than In this. study. participants in a smoking cessation program were usked to rate themselves in terms of the dillicully they experienced in giving up smoking. They also provided information on the number and type of cigarettes they had been smoking. We then examined the correlations between this information provided by the participants, their success in stopping cigarette use, and serum cotinine levels taken at several points during the courseofthe purticipation in the cessation program. In addition, we attempted to ascertain activity of the sympathetic system by natiny plasma dopamincoetatydroNyac (DBH). Cessation of Smoking John. J. Langone. and Helen Van Vunakis THHROLE cotinine levels, and dilliculty in modilying the smoking habit. respectively): Furthermore, cotinine is lound in the bloodiat levels usually greater nicotine in rats. - E MATERIALS AND METHODS Suhjeers. The participants in. this study were memhers of a smoking cessation group conducted at the New York State Psychiatric Institute in collaboration with "Smoke enders, - a proprietary. urganization spe- From the Vew York Statr Psrchiutric Institute, New Yurk, N.Y. and the Depurtment uf. Biv- Phillip Zeidenherg. M.D., Ph.D.: Seninr Research Psyehiatrist, Vew York State I'sychiatric In- stitute Jerome : Jalle, M.D: Chief. Department of Biolugical Psychtatry, Vew Yurk Stute Psy- chitrie Institute: Maureen. Kaniler, Ph.D),: Senior Research.Scientivt, New York State Purchtatric Institute, Morlon D. Levilt, Ph.D.: Axsociate Reseurch Scientist, New Yurk State "sychiurrie In- sttute: JohniJ. Langone. Ph.D.: Seniur Research ssociute. Depariment of Binchemisiry. Brandeis University: und Iielen Van Vunakis, Ph.D:: Prufessor, Depurtment uf Bwnchemistry. Brundeis Suppurted in purt hy GRS Grunt 303E2631. Contraer NOI-CP-23243 from the Nationul Cuncer In- stitute anl Ciruns NIII-D.10007 Jrumi tite Vatiunul Institute of Mintal Ilrulth. H.I.".  a PIS Kr srurch. Carrer Awarder (No, SA0-11-23721 frumi the Vataunal Institute uf Allerg" and Infertnus Pubilication No. HI9 from the Deparimentol. Huchemistry. Brandeis University, M'altham, Mass. Reprint reyuests shundd he adiressed to Phultup Leulenherg. M. .D., New Kurk State "swehiutri in- chemistry. Hrunleis University. Walthum, Mass, Universitr. Diseases. stitute, Vew: Yurk.v.Y. JINIS2. 5 1977 br (irune d Stratton, Inc. Comprehensive Psychiatry. Vol 18. No. 1 (January i aruary), 1977 93 