RLPNINT de British Journal of Addiction 751 (190)81-88. G1980Britisl Journal of Addiction to. Alcohol and other Drugs. 007-4X19090/00XX081502.00 9905 Consumption of Cigarettes of Reduced Tar and Nicotine Delivery R. Stepney, M.A.(Oxon), M.Sc. Research Psychologist, Universily of Cambridge Clinical School, Depiarlment ofMedicine, Level 5, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 200 Summary The results of 16 published experiments which have investigated the effect of reduced tar and nicoline delivery on cigarette consumption ibere analysed. Smokers switched to brands of lower delivery were found lo have significantly increased consumption, the greatest increases. in consumptron occurring after the largest reductions in delivery: A linear regression of the dala shovus the consumption increase predicted for different levels of delivery reduction. The relevance of this dala lo changes in cigaretle consumption taking place in the general smoking population is discussed. Introduction The past 40 years have scen a clear and continuing reduction in the 'standard" tar and nicotine deliveries of cigarettes (i.c. the deliveries obtained when cigaret- tcs arc machine-smoked to standard specifications of pull frequency, duration and volume [1, 2). In the main, this has resulted from. the almost complete abandon- ment of plain cigarettes in favour of those with filters (filter cigarette sales as a percentage of the total U.K. market have increased from 2 per cent in 1955 to 90 per cent in 1977),* although reductions in delivery have also been obtained by increasing the efliciency of lilters, by tobacco blending and by smoke dilution The switch to lower-delivery cigarettes has been cncouraged in an attempt to reduce the health risks of smoking (especially those related to ar intakc) in smokers unable or unwilling to abstain completely (3, 4). Although the delivery of tar contributes to the sensory aspects of smoking, it is probably not ofimportance in maintaining the habit. However, perhaps unfortunately, the delivery of tar is very closely correlated with that of nicotine (5] which almost certainly does playa central role in smoking motivation [6, 7), cither as the agent ofaddiction or as the mediator of desired psychological ellects such as the control of'arousal and the enhancement of performance [8,9). Both the addiction" and the 'psychological tool" models therefore suggest that the nicotine intake from smoking must remain at or above the level necessary to have the desired pharmacological cflects ifit is Sinokers dissatisfied with cigarettes of lower standard nicotine delivery are able tO compensate by increasing the 'elliciency' with which they extract nicotine from the lower-dclivery cigarettes (i.c. by taking morc and longer pulls and (through ventilation of the cigarette). to continue to satisfy the smoker. Source is Lee [) and supplements. 