Journal of Public Health Policy: 4/4 Dec. 1983 The Cigarette Safety Bill: A Case Study in Injury Control Advocacy STEPHEN P. TERET and SUSAN D:FRANCESCO & C a : little cigars that do not have reduced when left unattended. IGARETTES kill people in two distinct ways: one way is slow; the other, rapid. Slow deaths occur by can- cer, heart discase and lung disease. The less frequently discussed rapid deaths occur to about 2300 Americans each year in housefires. These lives are lost arc physically and emotionally scarred cigarettes and and others by heating capacity or do not burn out The unattended lit cigarette or little cigar frequently comes in contact with upholstered furniture, mattresses or bedding and creates a fire that becomes a deadly inferno. This tragic scenario after year in every state throughout the country, with repeats the result itselfy year that smoking is the leading cause of residential fire deaths and injuries. Aimed at ending this preventable human suffering, cigarette safety legis- lation has been introduced in the United States Congress and in ten state legislatures. Generally, the bills seek to have established a standard for arettes and little cigars which would lower their propensity to ignite cig- housefires. Although these several bills arc generally similar, their content varies in some important areas. For example, the standards themselves are differently defined, and there arc variations in terms of who is authorized The Injury Control Council of the National Association for Public Health Policy (NAPHP) undertook an analysis of the cigarette safety issue and the bills designed to address that issuc. A prototype bill was prepared which was subsequently introduced in the Maryland State Legislature. What follows is the text of that billi with a section by section analysis. It is offered both for use (with modification where necessary) in other states, and as an example of the ability of a public health advocacy group to address the risk of death of thousands by a relatively simple piece of smoldering to promulgate the standard. legislation. 440 