SFC5/UUU4 Sourse Ref. st reer. SOME COMPARATIVE PHARMACOLOGICAL ACTIONS OF (-)-NICOTINE, ITS OPTICAL ISOMER, AND RELATED COMPOUNDS Department of Pharmacology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michgan IT IS of considerable theoretical and possibly practical value 10 find a: selective. centrally acting nicotine analogue. The optical isomers of pharmacologically active drugs show differential effects which are usually quantitative but occasionally qualitative. Therefore, it is of value to study the comparative pharmacology of the optical isomers of nicotine. Pictet and Rouschy (1904) found that naturally occurring (-) )-nicotine was about twice 05 toxic as the synthetic (+ )-nicotine in both guinea-pigs and rabbits. Macht and Davis (1934) showed that (-)-nicotine was more poisonous than racemic nicotine in tadpoles of R. pipiens and in cats. The most thorough research on the optical isomers of nicotine was by Gause (1941) who determined the relative toxicity of these compounds in various animals. He determined a tonicity ratio of(+)-t to(-)-nicotine for a large variety of living forms. Phylas such as Protozoa, Coelenterata, Platyhelminthes. Trochelminthes and Nemertinea showed equal toxic effects following (+)- or (-l-nicotice. Howeser. Annelida, Pisces, Amphibia, Reptilia, Aves and other higher vertebrate forms showed marked differential toxic effects. (+)-Nicotine alnays was less toxic than (-)-nicotine. Gause poinied out that the striking stereospecificity of (-)-nicotine toxicity in various phyla was related to the presence or absence of acetylcholine in their nervous systems. He compared his work with that of Bacq (1935) who determined the concentration of acetylcholine and cholin- esterase in various animal forms. Gause postulated that the blockade of receptor sites by (->-nicouine had some close relationship to receptor sites for acetylcholine mediation. Presumably the spatial characteristics of (-)-nicotine fit more closely the acetylcholine receptor than (+)-nicotine. The report by Hicks and Sinclair (1947) disagrees with the previous literature in that these investigators found (+) and (-) >aicotine equally toxic to rats and guinea-pigs. A reinvestigation of the comparative pharmacology of the optical isomers of nicotine seemed indicated. This report summarizes some of our pertinent findings as well as those on several related nicotine derivatives. EDWARD F. DOMINO 30) 