SrUsUU - : T The Bisuds Vol. 108, No. 2, 1982 BIOCHEMICAL AND BIOPHYSICAL RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS RECHANISH OF ACTION OP BENZD()PYRENE AND BICUTINE ON HORMONE PRODUCTION Sukrita Chakrabarti, Steven D. Hanes and Debajit K. Bisvas* Laboratory of Pharmacology, Harvard School of Dental Hedicine and Department of Pharmacology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 0211 Seplember 30. 1982 Pages 596-603 BY RAT PITUITARY TUMOR CELLS Received August 16, 1982 SUMMARY: The effects of che cyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) and that of the tobacco alkaloid, nicotine, on prolactin (PRL) and grovth hor- mone (CH) syathesis by rat pituitary tunor cells in culture (GH celle) have been etudied. Treatment of GH cells with nicorine (0.1-300 ug/ml) neither affected the grovth, nor significantly altered che general pattern of hormone production in these cells. BaP at concentrations greater than 5 ug/ml ir- 'reversively inhibited the grovth of these celle. The sublethal concentrations of Bal, which did not affect either 1) cell grovth, or 2) amino ecid transport or 3) total protein synthesis or degradation, did however inhibit specifically, hornone synchesis by these celle. Hore interestingly concentrations of nicotine which did not affect eicher cell growth or hormone yethesis, nodulated both of these cellular processes in the presence of BaP. A concentration dependent stinulation of microsonal BaP monooxygenase activity vas observed in nicotine or BaP treated cells. The effects of these drugs on stieulation of BaP nono- oxygenase activity seens to be,additive. Nicotine also enhanced,the ansociation of radiosctivity (presumably I'u) BaP netabolites) with DNA in I'n) BaP treated cells. 1t is concluded that nicotine by itself did not denonstrare any ertotoxie effect nor influence hormone synthesis in CH cells. Hovever, this constituegt of tobacco smoke stiaulated BaP sonoovygenane activity and the inceraction of IH) BaP metabolites vith cellular DNA and also nodulated BaP induced inhibition of hormone cyathesis in CH cells. INTRODUCTION: The cyclie aronatic hydrocarbon, benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) 1s an established potent carcinogen (1). Its abundance in the environment and ita intake fron other soutces such as tobacco snoke, qualifies it as one of the most prevalent chenical carcinogens to which living svstens are currently ex- posed. Ectopie hormone production by lung tumors obtained from hesvy seokers nugsest that certain constituents of cigarette smoke are responsible for such cellular differentiation (2.3). Hornones have been associated vith inductlon ard progression of tumors in many experimental syatens; bat the role of hormones  To whon all the correspondence should be addresned. 0-BMRIMAM-CEMI.C Coyngh e 1982 br. Aradrmic Press, Inc AN hghn ef repreducnon M um, form resened Su6 