SF0510048 : 916 CAMPBELL Symposium on Tinue Immumnpathology CTR Neutral Proteinases from Human A Critical Review of Their Role in Extracellular inflammatory Cells Matrix Degradation Robert M. Senior, M.D., and Edward). Campbell, M.D.t Many biological processes require the of participation the extracellular of proteolytic matrix. enzymes capable of degrading components Carefully regulated extracellular proteolytic events are important for lation, implantation, embryologic development. and the normal turnover of extracellular tis: de throughout life. 41. 1oo Tumor, metastasis also appeurs and to iuvolve proteolytic enzymes di-ected against basement membranes In inflammatory reactions, proteineses ard a variety of leukocytic products are released into the extracellular envirooment. The secretory activity of klopites is so prominent that Welssmann referred to these cells as secretory organs of infammation."  of Proteolytic anble enzymes tissue, fibrin, released and inflammatory cells initiete the: digestion non 23 proteins and proleoplycans, and may activale mediators infammation." i Normal basement membranes and intact extrucellolar matrix may be targets of proteolytic enzymes from infammatory cells sincr the cells must penetrne these structures to reach cltes of injury these end infection.' i1 although the cells may le able to migrate through extravascular strurtures without causing proteolysis." *Frofessor of Medicine. Weshungton University of School Medicine. of Medkcine: Wahington Co-Director, Univenity Respintory School of and Mediciae Critical a The Care Jewish Division, Hospii Departmenl of St. Louis. SL. Louh Missourl tAssistant Profesor o Mediciae. Washingion Universthy School of Medicine: Medical School Direr tor. Respirstory Cure Services. ofst Louls, of Medicine. S. Loub. Wahinpon Missouri Univenity of Medicine at The Jewish mprist Supported In part by Grants HL 16118 and HL 30301 Research. from the U.S.A. United lnc., Steles and Publie the Ammican Health Service. a pant from The Council for Tobacto Lung Assoclation of Eastern Missourt Clinia in Laborstory Medicine-Vd 3. No. 4. Deceniber 1993 ovu- - extracellular matrix." eaa 100 other of 645 