Of the 10 nations where snoking io widespread, Nine are in Asia according to the WHO., Pepua New Guinoa has 858 of men and 80% vonen moking. In descending arder, Fiji, Nepal, the Philippines, Indonesia, Bangladesh, South Korea, Japan and Judith Mackay in HK toid the World Cardiology Congress in Manila recantly that a study pre- dicts that 50xn chinese younger than 20 today will die of tcbacco related diseases. She criticises the US goverrment for forcing Asian countries to lower barriers againat cigarette She says that Asian govermments are not in a position to curb ssoking because they need the Howaver, she says that goverrments do not take into account the sickness, lcst workdays and rising nedical costs which result if the tobacco The artlcle goes an to describe anti-sncking measures in China, the Philippines, Japan, Indonesia, Pakistan, Thailand, Taiwan and India. China follow.  1 - imports. tax revenue. habit is not stoppad. NENS_INTL 13-MAR-90 MAILAND: TIM WILL NUT REDUCE ROLE The Nation, 13 Mar 1990, p.14:- The Thai Tobacco Monopoly (TIM) has declared that it will not give in to preesure from anti- msoking lobbyists and foreign cigarette nanutac- tures and reduce its key role in the industry. TIM currently generates about B 12 bn in reverue for the Thai goverrment each year. TIM recorded a grouth of 101 in 1989 despite efforts by government in anti-sooking carpaign. At least 300,000 farmers are directly involved in the operation of tobacco estates arourd the country and thousands of wholesalers and ratailers are benefiting from the rarketing and distribution of cigarettes to nillions of consumers. TIN, a state enterprise under the Finance Ministry has folloved the government regulation in banning labelling cigarette additives and ingredients an cigarette packs. It has a production capacity of 17 bn cigarettes a yoar but its 4 units have boen rurning vell 36.79 bn cigarettes. Production for 1990 is expocted to reach 39.71 bn. N I beyond their capabilities in 1989, producing 29 