SNPA" BULLETIN ADVERTISING APRIL 3, 1978 GOVERNMENT TASK FORCE. TO STUDY CIGARETTE ADVERTISING IN NEWSPAPERS The U.S. Department of Health Education and Welfare and a. Federal Trade Commission tasi force have announced plans to study cigarette advertisements in newspapers to determine if they The task force, an outgrowth of HEW Secretary Joseph Califano's new antismoking campaign, will look at ways to counter advertisements FCalifano told a House subcommittee recently that his new federal Office of Smoking and Health will mount a campaign to inform the nation't teenagers and children about the hazards of smoking so that they will have what he said is balanced information when they choose whether or Califano told the subcommittee that when teenagers and children make decisions about smoking, "They are often responding to a half a billion dollar advertising campaign which portrays smoking as attractiv The Newspaper Advertising Bureau estimates that the cigarette in- dustry spent $197 million on' newspaper ads in 1976. Total newspaper The cigarette industry claims that cigarette ads are designed to prompt smokers to switch brands, not start smoking. Michael Schaefer, acting director for the Office of Smoking and Health, said that the task. force wants to determine whether the advertising is misleading in are deceptive or unfair. aimed at teenagers and children, the FTC said. not to smoke. I and mature." advertising for 1976 was $9.9 billion. violation of federal law. The task force has met once, but has not decided how to conduct th study. PFF #### #: # SURVEY SHOWS WIDENING IN GAP BETWEEN NATIONAL, LOCAL RATES A survey of more than 400 newspapers across the country conducted by the American Association of Advertising - Agencies shows that the rate differential between most newspapers' national or general"advertising rates and their retail or local rates In 1977, the average national ad rate was 50.6 percent more expen- sive than the average retail rate. This compares with" a 50.5 percent differential in 1976; 50.3 percent in 1975; and a 49.4 percent differen tial in 1974. In 1939, the first year the 4A's began such a newspaper continued. to creep wider apart in 1977. Esurvey, there was a 37.9 percent differential. 