-  - LICTIOS MOKING JEALTII 2000 H St,.W. Washington D.C.20006 COUTACT: Sohn F. Canzhaf In or Joel D. Joseph (202) 659-4310 FOR RELEASE: 1:30 P.M. EDT EDAYAHUAAY 14, 1974 BAN ON CIGARETTE BILLDDARDS SOUSNT Total prohibition of cigarette advertising on ofiiboards is deaanded in a petitfen to be filed this week before the Federal Trade Cocaission on behalf of a broad spectrun of health and public interest organtzations by Action on Smoking Charging that cigarette billboards constitute an unfair and deceptive trade practice, tha petition called o the FTC to nove against then, Just as the Federal Coverritent banned broadcast cigarette advertising' three years ago. John F. Banzhaf III, Executive Director of Action cn Sroking and Heslth, said the fellowing organizatfons and indfviduals Joined' ha in co-sponsoring tbe Interagency Council on Snoking and Heaith, aed its 14 menber organizatfons, and Health (ASH). : patition for rulesaking he filed today with the De: Dougles A. Canpbell of Los Angeles, Calffernia Averican Cancer Sociaty, D. C. Division Atericen Tenporance Society Council of Churchas of Greater Mashfngton D. C. Congress of Parents and Teachers : C. Cemnunity Heaith and Hospitals, Administration D. : Dental Society D. C. League for Hursing D. C. Lung Association D. C. Medical Society D. C. Medico-Chfrurgical Socfety D. C. Public Health Association D. C. Public Schools National Hedical Associatfon, Inc. Kashington Heart Assoctation Seventh-Day Adventist Temperance Cepartment is an unfair and deceptive trade practice:. : FTC; including The petition cites throe najor reasons why bittboard cigarette advertistng - "First of all, health warnings re too small to reed hben driving past at - 50 niles an hour. Secondly, children can be influenced by the larger than life sized pietures cf aduits smoking cigarattos. Finally, biliboards may have a suhlininal affect on the viewer because of the speod at which ho is passing and may not realizo that he evea sa the advertisenont." (HORE) (HOSE) (MORE) 