Strange with the exception ofwhat I pointed out, most of the site should be active with navigational links working (they work on our PCs). Please could: you give me an example of a couple of the links which do not work on your PC: and TII have Larsen look into il. Thanks -Original Message-- From: jbressler@lortobco com mailio: jbessleralenicbecom Sent: Thursday, July 05, 2001 2:22 PM To: Williams, Hugh (BSMG) Subject: Re: Updated Ziakel0.com Staging Site I0 think you should check back with Larson Inicractive belorc I revicw this. Upon entcring the site, li immediatcly triod 10 click on scveral linked items. with no avail. The ones I tried included the Scnd a Postcard" option from parenting resourees : as well as the other options on that page. Why don't you send me a review copy when ALL items are active and working Right now, I think it would just be pointless t0 do s0. Williams. Hugh (BSMG)" <hwilliamsabsmg .com on 0705/2001 03:1 18:31 PM cc: "Lorillard Adam" apldargmewyor.boxel com>, "Homburger, Katy "Lorillard John Roth" gohznenyotkburdil.om. Lorillard Courtney Hamill" <chamillianewyork bozcll.com> Subjoct: Updated 2takelo.com Staging Site To: Jordan BresskrLonllardMLBAEMLBA (BSMG)" %khomburgerabsmgcom>, Abraham, Alex (BSMG)" <AAbrahama.bsmg com>, Hi Jordan Attached is a link t0 the updated 2take10.com staging site for your review. We are still working on a few minor navigational items (eg. link to "ask Popkin") as well as a few other minor edits: - Copy to be placed in "Parent Suney" box on home page Font on "Take 101 Tour" and "Media Comer" pages 10 be changes Content t0 be placed in photo/vidco archive page of "Take 10 Tour" section Contact information tO be placod at botlom of" "Contact Us" page We will continue to do cditing sweeps, but the site is esscntially ini its final form. Please review the sile and let us know your thoughis. Once we receive your feedback and make: any necessary changes, we will again forward you a link to the site for a final review before our. July 20 launch. 81867963 