I HRINNEMEVER Beitrage zur Tabakforschung - Band 4 Heft 7 Dezember 1968 Determination of the BalanceotCarbon-14 Activity Added to Cigarettes* by R. E. Thornton and C. Valentine Researc and Development Establishment, British-American Tobacco Co. Lid., Southampton, England INTRODUCTION When cigarettes are burnt tobacco constituents can either transfer to the smoke in unchanged form, or undergo pyrolysis reactions which cause degradation products to be present in the smoke. For many tobacco constituents, transfer and pyrolysis reactions occur simultaneously, but because of the complex nature of smoke the study of these processes is frequently laborious and difficult. However, the addition of labelled compounds to cigarettes can be of considerable assistance in such studies, since the resulting smoke components can be identified by means of the labelled atom. In order to establish the validity of this approach it is necessary to demonstrate that the activity added to a cigarette can be recovered after the cigarette is smoked. In this paper the design and evaluation of apparatus for determining the mass-balance of carbon-14 activity is described. APPARATUS AND MATERIALS Cigarette Smoking Cigarettes (70X24-5 mm) were conditioned at 58% R. H. and 21° C, and selected on the basis of average weight (t20 mg) and average pressure drop (+4° at a flow-rate of 1050 ml/min). Solutions (80 ul) of radioactive chemicals were added along the entire length of the cigarette by means of a hypodermic syringe. The syringe was withdrawn from the axis of the cigarette at a uniform rate as injection proceeded. The cigarettes were conditioned for a further three days Cigarettes were smoked on a B-A-T smoking engine operating under restricted conditions. Puff volume: 35 ml, puff duration 2 sec (nominal), puff frequency: 1 per minute, butt length: 23 mm (except for cigarettes containin benzol@pyrene710-C14 which were smoked to an 8 mm butt). before smoking. Liquid Scintillation Counting Packard 3375 Liquid Scintillation Counter. Gain 8.8' */o. Window 50-1000. a:5-diphenyloxazole (PPO) 5 g. Toluene (redistilled) 1000 ml. > Aliquots counted in 15 ml portions of the following scintillator solution: Dimethylaa-p-phenykenebudyphenyouazole) (Dimethyl-POPOP) 0.3 8 Samples counted for sufficient time to give 10,000 counts (standard deviation 1.0%). Received for poblicatioe: 30ch July, 1968. 287 