Juurnul of Chromatographr. 109 (1975) 271-279 Elevier Scientific Publishing Company, Anskrdam - Printed in The Netherlands CHROM. A270 IRACE ANALYSIS OF VOLATILE N-NITROSO COMPOUNDS BY COM- BINED GAS CHROMATOGRAPHY AND THERMAL ENERGY ANALYSIS D. H.FINE and D. P. ROUNBEHLER JAvrmo Electron Corporation, 85 First Avente, Waltham, Masr. 021541U.S.A.) (First received November 28th, 1974; revised manuscript reccived February 17th, 1975) SUMMARY Thermal energy analysis (TEA) has been combined with gas chromatography (GC). The new GC-TEA technique is highly specific to compounds which contain heat labile nitrosy! groups. Because of the specificity ofthe technique, full use may be made of the TEA sensitivity. Analysis by direct injection of solutions containing less than I ng/ml N-nitroso compound is demonstrated. INTRODUCTION Quantitative and selective gas chromatographic (GC) analysis procedures for volatile nitrosamines at the sub-ug/ml level, using either the alkali lume ionization detector or the Coulson electrolytic conductivitydetector have been described'. When combined with adequate clean-up techniques. including concentration by factors of wver 1000, these procedures can be used' for ug:kg analysis. of certain nitrosamines in fondstufts. Elaborate clean-up and concentration. procedures. apart from being te- Jious and costly, greatly limit the number of compounds. which may be screened. In addition, it is never certain whether the nitrosamine concentrations which are found are duc to artifacts of the clean-up procedures themseives. For these reasons. an N- aitroso compound specific, ultra sensitive GC detector would be of mujor value in evaluating the importance to human cancer of N-nitroso compounds in the environ- Thermal energy analysis (TEA) has been shown* to be selective to N-nitroso compounds at the sub-ngiml level. This puper describes the incerfacing of a thermal energy analyzer with a gas chromatograph. the combined GC-TEA system retaining all the sensitivity and selectivily characteristics inherent in both GC and TEA. ment. IPARATUS The principle of operation" and the detailed design parameters"" of the TEA The GC-TEA interlace is shown schematically in. Fig.1. The GC ellluent is introduced direetly into the TEA catalytic pyrolyzer. In order to prevent condensil- detector are described elsewhere. 