WA Smdde à Reasons for Beginning to Smoke The reason for the initial act of smoking is nearly always attributed to psychological factors. Many Freudian-like reasons have been given such as the one of E. Hiller (1922): "The reason, or at least one of the reasons, why people start smoking is the phallic significance of the cigarette, cigar and pipe. This attraction appears to be sufficient to overcome the slight barrier caused by the fact that some people do not like the taste at first - slight because after all it is a very good taste." Young people often start smoking inspired by vanity to appear like grown-ups and for the pure thrill of violating the taboo placed on cigarettes by Surveys have indicated that beginning smokers of the college age do so to appear more grown-up, to relieve a sense of inadequacy, to attain proper status in a group, to become what they regarded as men and women of the Suggestion and association with dew enviornmental elements play an important part in introducing people to smoking. Recent findings show that about three-quarters of the private school graduates started to smoke in prep school and about three-quarters of the public school graduates started to their elders. world. smoke in college. Tobacco, Experimental and Clinical Studies, P. S. Larson, et. al. (1961) p. 528 Reasons for Continuing to Smoke The reasons for continuing to smoke may be somewhat rationally or roughly divided into five main categories: 1) for the pharmacological effects of nicotine, 2) for the stimulation of the special senses by other constituents of tobacco smoke, 3) for psychological, psychic, or psychoanalytic reasons, 4) for social and cultural reasons, and 5) for economic reasons. 1. Pharmacological effects of nicotine - Nicotine has an interesting biphasic action, unique among "pleasure poisons." When, the nervous system is stimulated, nicotine sedates; when it is depressed, a. The taste of tobacco smoke is perhaps one of the more minor pleasures of smoking, whereas the aroma provides a more important stimulation (numerous surveys are quoted on this point, one giving only a 5% positive response to taste as a nicotine stimulates. 2. Stimulation of the special senses factor in smoking). 