11926 The Structure-Activity Relationships of Some SubslilufedCoumarins with Respect to Skin Reactions muthylcoumarin ref. 6 12 Donald L. Opdyke" All of the coumarins described in this paper have been used in fragrances in different parts of the worid. Consequently, a description of their effects on the skin is worthy of attention. The term "structure-activity relationship" (SAR) has become: standard parlance in the toxicologi- cal profession. It refers to relating a certain molecular configuration in a: series of chernical com- pounds to somel biological: lunction, in this case, a toxic property. Many limes, in order to discover this relationship, ifa any, it is necessaryt to test literally dozens of chemical structures before a corre- In thisi instance, it was discovered byi Kaidbey & Kligman that 6-methylcoumarin! had photoallergic properties, i.e., it was a sensitizer for human skin in the presence of U-V light.' This discovery led them to develop the human photomaximization teste3 -a test in which 25 human subjects are patch tested for 5 X 48-hour periods. In between each application, the patched area is exposed to ultraviolet light. After these 5 patches and 5 exposures to u-v, the subjects are rested for 2 weeks and a challenge-48-hour: application is applied to a new site and the subjects are exposed to the non-burning portion off the U-v spectrum, U-V-A. If the: subjects have been made allergic by the ex- posures to the 5 u-v treated patch tests, they will develop intense redness and sight of challenge. If they have not been photosensitized, the challenge site will blistering remain normal. Naturally. suitable sites on each subject have to be tested with the u-v-A alone or with the test ma- terial alone to: servei as proper control. sites, and to understandi thei individuals subject'si idiosyncra- The results described in this paper, enabling US to develop a relationship between a structural modification in the molecule: and the capacity of that materiall to photosensitize were all performed by Dr. Kaidbey using the photomaximization test in materials tested for RIFM, All were tested at : 5 % in hydrophilic ointment. Of course, in testing for photoallergy or photosensitization, one has to eliminate the possibilities that the chemical mighthave photcirritant or phototoxic even be a sensitizer without the necessity of having ultraviolet light present. properties or Or. 0. - Opdyke. President of Research Institule tor Fragrance Materials. Inc. (RIFM) lation appears. - at the sies. 43 Urag - OcO: fepoee 286 - C a - 51 981 - H924 