FLORIAN PERINI CURRENT DIGEST of Scientific Papers Relating to Tobacco Use (Compiled and Described for Informational Purposes Only for The Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A. Inc. The Summaries Are Not Intended to be Complete Scientific Abstracts.) AUG 15 1977 Vol. 22, No. 8 August 1977 Page L 15 16 19 21 22 24 26 28 42 Contents - 1. Heart and Circulation. 2. Lung Cancer 3. Other Respiratory Conditions 4. Pregnancy 5. Other Systemic Conditions 6. Statistics 7. Polycyclic Hydrocarbons 8. Smoke Condensa te and Constituents 9. Psychology 10. Miscellaneous 11. Briefs from Meetings 12. Additional Rererences 1. HEART AND CIRCULATION MJOS, 0.D., THELLE, D.S., FORDE, 0.H. & VIK-MO, H., University of Tromso, "Family study of high density lipoprotein cholesterol and the relation to age and sex. : (Acta Medica Scandinavica 201/4: 323-9, 1977) "A family study of serum high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and total serum cholesterol concentration has been undertaken, and the relation to age, sex, cigarette smoking, physical activity andi familial occurrence of myocardial infarction (MI) was examined. HDL cholesterol was determined in 251 females and 194 malès. and total serum cholesterol in 677 females and 657 males, all aged 0-49 years. With respect to HDL cholesterol, significant sex differences were observed both in absolute level and in age-related change. A negative correlation between HDL cholesterol and total serum cholesterol was observed in all age groups except remales aged 0-19 years, supporting. the hypothesis of HDL as a 'clearing' lipoprotein. HDL cholesterol showed a positive correlation only in pairs of first-degree relatives involving the mother andi in sib sib pairs of the same sex. On the other hand, for serum cholesterol a positive correlation was found among all family members, although sig- nificantly higher between first-degree relatives than between spouses. No relation was found between cigarette smoking, physical activity or familial occurrence of MI and the HDL cholesterol or total serum choles- terol concentrations. In accordance with the 'HDL hypothesis', the present finding could partly explain the higher incidence A ischemic heart disease (IHD) in males than in females, and partly also the high risk which is tmmuited from women with IHD to their first-degree Norway F relatives.. 