/ SEPS Problems. and Recent Results in thc Analytical Determination of N-Nitroso Compounds R. PREUSSMANN and G. EISENBRAND Th German Cancer Research Center, Institule ef Exprrimental Toxicelogy and Chemotherapy, Hridelberg, The potent biological effects ofa large number of organic N-nitroso compounds (nitrosamines and nitrosamides) include carcinogenicity, mutagenicity, teratogeni- city and embryotoxicity among other acute and subchronic toxic effects. The OC- currence of such compounds in the human environment has therefore caused rising concern in recent years. In vicw of the pronounced carcinogenic effects of such compounds, even low or very low quantities ofenvironmental N-nitroso compounds must be considered a potential human health risk. The determination of the de- grec ofhuman cxposure, therefore, is of paramount importance in the ficld of nitros- For the evaluation of the significance of an exposure to nitrosamines as a car- cinogenic hazard, adequate analytical methods for the detection and determination of N-nitroso compounds are necessary. Such methods must be extremely sensitive, must give unequivocal and reproducible results and must cover a wide range of N- nitroso compounds, often with very different physico-chemical and stability pro- perties. The usual criteria for analytical methods must be fulfilled, namely, speci- Many of the methods used for nitrosamine analysis until recently did not fulfill such necessary requirements. Although the results obtained with such methods are not meaningless, it is clear that they must be repeated and confirmed (if possible) Much progress has been made in the last few years in the improvement of nitros- amine analysis. A summary will be given in this paper. The contributions of Wat Grrmay amine rescarch. ficity, sensitivity, accuracy and reproducibility. with improved methodology. our own group will be given with more detail. N-Nitroso Compounds as a Human Iealth acard - =E - 5 3 In thie absence of direct and conclusive evidence about the activity of: a chemical A 323 