oa 77" Reprinted from The Britiah Journal of Cancer, 1069, Vol.. XXIII, p. 363 A STUDY OF THE COMPARATIVE CARCINOGENICITY OF CIGARETTE AND CIGAR SMOKE CONDENSATE ON MOUSE SKIN R. F. DAVIES AND T. D. DAY From the Tobacco Research Council Laboratories, Harrogate Received for publication February 3, 1969 A PREVIOUS publication from these Laboratories (Day, 1967). reported the carcinogenic action to mouse skin of cigarette smoke condensate applied either as 24 hour condensate, stored condensate or the neutral fraction from stored conden- sate. The work now reported is a comparison of the specific mouse skin carcinogenicity of smoke condensates prepared from small cigars, cigarettes manufactured from cigar tobacco, and cigarettes manufactured from. fue-cured Previous studies reported by other workers (Croninger et al., 1958, Kensler, 1962, Homburger et al., 1963) using tobacco products commercially available in the United States at that time, have suggested a greater carcinogenic activity of smoke condensate from cigars than smoke condensate from. cigarettes manu- factured from blends containing both. air and Aue-cured tobacco, but statistically tobacco. significant differences have not been obtained. MATERIALS AND METHODS Cigars. (C1) Small cigars (length 83 mm., circumference 33-7 mm., average weight 1-86 g:) were specially manufactured from a composite blend of cigar tobacco representing small cigar brands smoked in the United Kingdom. The filler was granulated tobacco and the wrapper and binder natural leaf. Cigars were wrapped indivi- dually in cellophane andi packed in batches of five in cardboard cartons which were also wrapped in cellophane and stored at 21° C. and controlled humidity of 60% Cigarettes (length 70 mm., circumference 25-1 mm., average weight 0-94 g.) were specially manufactured from the same tobacco as used for the cigars described above but instead of being granulated, the tobaceo was shredded at 50 cuts per inch and wrapped in normal cigarette paper. They were packed in batches of Plain cigarettes (length: 70 mm., circumference 25-3 mm., average weight 1-09 g.) were specially manufactured from a composite blend of flue-cured tobacco represer.ting the major plain cigarette brands smoked in the United Kingdom, packed in batches of 50 in vacuum-sealed tins and stored at 4° C. before use. R.H. before use. Cigarettes (cigar tobacco) (C2) 50 in vacuum-sealed tins and stored at 4° C. before use. Control cigarettes (T4): 