Journal of urinary pH on ul, 106, 13-19. nicotine intake ish. Joumal of afluencing 'gia, 28, 247-259. ) Adjustment holders. Clinical 78b)Smokers' This volume of changing to low- 27.The influence of cigarette smoke yields on smoking habits PIADAMS Introduction It is a matter of great interest to any product manufacturer to know how his product is consumed. In the case of a- tobacco manufacturer it is relatively casy to conduct market research surveys to discover who smokes cigarettes how many, which brand and on what occasion. It is less easy to obtain data on subjective opinions about cigarettes their quality, lavour, and the satisfaction given. It is very difficult Each person has a variety of ways in which he can smoke his cigarette differently from someone else. The method of drawing smoke from a-cigarette in terms of the flow rate/time profile of the puff may differ. The puff volumes and spacing of the puffs during the life of the cigarette may differ. These factors have been shown to affect the smoke yield from the cigarette. Given the smoke drawn from the cigarette there are two further ways in which the smokers can alter their dose t by losing some smoke before the act of inhaling and changes in the act of inhalation In theory all these factors are susceptible to measurement but in practice efforts to do so sometimes intrude unacceptably into the normal smoking behaviour. We have for many years been using a method for recording the smoking habits of our panels (Adams, 1972, 1976). It is somewhat similar to that described in the paper by Creighton, Noble and Whewell (1978). There are disadvantages to the procedure which we mention:- intrusion into the habit by the use of: a cigarett holder and the tubes necessary to make flow measurement; increased resistance to puffing presented by the measuring orifice. As tests of the validity of our experiments, we have compared recordings of smokings made by different methods. We have filmed smokers and subsequently analysed the film frame by frame t0 obtain puffing data (Adams, 1972). We have also unobtrusively observed pancl members smoking in situations other than in our lounge laboratory. A pressure sensitive transmitter of the type originally described by Mackay and Jacobson (1957), has been used to avoid the physical linkage between the cigarette holder and the trans- ducers.: Comparisons of the data have shown a satisfactory agreement between the In addition there are effects due t0 the test surroundings. We have made efforts to provide a relaxed atmosphere; the lounges have carpets, easy chairs, pictures, d indeed to investigate how a cigarette is actually smoked. itself. Experimental methods different methods of measurement. 349 