/ - : jne,196*, Geratries 425-433, HENRY I. RUSSEK, M.D., F.A.C.P. Consultant in cardiovascular disease CS. Public Health senice Hospital STATEX SLAND, MT. Tobacco comsumrption amd emottomal stress in the etiology of coromary boart discase Tobacco has long been held suspect both as a major etiologic fac- tor in coronary atherosclerosis and as an aggravating influence in clinical disorders of the coronary circulation. This suspicion was re- cently strengthened by the finding that the risk of dying in the prime of life is almost twice as great for American men who are heavy cig- However, in spite of clear statistical evidence that overindulgence in smoking is far more prevalent among candidates for coronary attacks than among normal controls,4 there is at present little else to support a causal relationship between tobacco consumption and atherosclerosis. Indeed, even the statistical findings linking the to- bacco habit to coronary artery disease may lack direct etiologic significance since excessive smoking, like overeating and failure to obtain adequate exercise, is often an undeniable manifestation of psychological stress. Thus, while all of these practices may show a correlation with morbidity and mortality from coronary heart disease, the emotional influences underlying their development, rather than the actual habits themselves, may alone be implicated In an effort to determine the interrelationship among smoking habits, occupation-related emotional stress, and coronary heart dis- ease prevalence, a questionnaire survey was made of 10,000 profes- sional men in the fields of medicine, dentistry, and law. General practice and selected specialties, affording obvious contrast in oC cupational demands, were compared by this means in each of the profcssional groups respectively. The questionnaire was primarily designed to determine the family history and prevalence of diag: nosed coronary heart disease and hypertension among the profes- sional groups respectively. In about one-half of the total group, in- formation was requested concerning smoking habits. arette: smokers as for nonsmokers." in atherogenesis. 