TOXICOLOGY AND APPLIED PIARMACOLOGY 6, 103-111 (1964) Studies on the Effect of Irritant Vapors on Ciliary Mucus Transport I. Phenol and Cigarette Smoke' P. BERNFELD, C. W. NIXON, AND F. HOMBURGER Bio-Research Consultants, Inc., Cambridge, lassackusetts Recrived April, 1963 The property of tobacco smoke to slow down mucus transport on ciliated epithelium has recently received increased attention. This has been prompted by the suggestion that the cilia-inhibitory action of smoke may delay elimination of smoke particles from the bronchial tree and may, thus, further the resorption of material from the smoke. On the other hand, Hoffmann and Wynder (1963) have presented evidence that selective filtration of phenols from tobacco smoke resulted in a reduction of the cilia-inhibiting effect. This observation seemed to be in contradiction with data by Falk et al. (1959), who found no response of epithelium upon exposure to vapors of pure phenol. The present work provides data on the basis of which this seeming dis- crepancy may be explained, and which may be helpful in evaluating and understanding In addition, a simple and reproducible method for the study of the effects of smoke and other materials on frog cilia has been developed for this work and is described herein. This greatly improved method may be helpful to other workers in this and Frog esophagus preparation. Leopard frogs (Rana pipiens) were obtained rom a commercial supplier? and kept in glass containers on moist sphagnum moss. Immedi- ately before the experiment, they were pithed, and the esophagus and adjoining structures were carefully dissected, split longitudinally and pinned, ciliated side up, onto the paraffin-covered floor of a circular plastic dish measuring 65 mm in diameter and 22 mm in depth. Two such preparations were placed side by side in each dish, permitting simultaneous study. Prior to exposure to the test substance, the preparation was washed with frog Ringer's solution (NaCI, 1.30 g; KCI, 0.028 g; CaCla, 0.024 g; NaHCOs 0.04 g; NaH.PO4, 0.002 8; glucose, 0.4 8; H20, 200 ml). Measuring the rate of ciliary mucus transport. Before exposure of the preparation to smoke, to phenol, or to air as a control, the initial mucus flow rate was determined: The plastic dish containing the preparations was iilled with frog Ringer's solution containing 0.00625% yeast adenosine 5'-triphosphate, disodium salt, 4H,0 (ATP), unless stated otherwise, in such a way as to cover the preparation to a depth of the biological effects of tobacco smoke and of its components. related fields. METHODS 1 Supported by P. Lorillard Co., New York, New York. - J. M. Hazen and Co., Alburg, Vermont. 103 01131232 