Reprinted from the Archives of Internal Medicine June 1949, Vol. 83, PP. 608-619 f Copyright, 1949, by American Medical Association DE s ained RADIOACTIVE ISOTOPES IN THE STUDY OF F6 Kt E PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE %ozius L. Derivation of a Circulatory Index MORRIS T. FRIEDELL, M.D. FENTON SCHAFFNER, M.D. WILLIAM J. PICKETT, M.D. AND IRVIN F. HUMMON Jr., M.D. : CHICAGO HE APPLICATION of a new investigative tool in medical research is an exciting experience. Old concepts and barriers to new ideas crumble, and new avenues of approach to the understanding and solution of previously impenetrable problems appear. We are reporting on the use of radioactive isotopes in the investigation of peripheral vascular diseases, especially arteriosclerosis obliterans. The gradual aging of the population has increased the incidence of arterio- sclerosis and its complications and will undoubtedly continue to do so. One such factor, recently enunciated, has been the progressive develop- ment of obliterative vascular diseases in diabetic patients, whose lives have now been prolonged by approximately a generation through the judicious, use of insulin. The frequent occurrence of advanced vascular disease among patients at Cook County Hospital and the resulting neces- sity for amputations prompted this investigation. In the past several years, a number of reports 1 have appeared on the use of various sub- - stances to improve blood supply to the extremities, thus preventing or delaying, amputation. Moreover, there has been a definite trend toward  : This work was supported by a grant from the Biochemical Division, Inter- From the Hektoen Institute for Medical Research, Cook County Hospital, The Peripheral Vascular Clinic, Mercy Hospital, and the Department of Surgery, 1. Katz, R. A.: Impending Ischemic Gangrene: New Non Surgical Thera- peutic Suggestions (Preliminary Report), New Orleans M. & S. J. 98:542-555 (June) 1946. Wirtschafter, Z. T., and Widmann, R.: Elaboration of Histamine in Vivo in the Treatment of Peripheral Vascular Disorders: Preliminary Report, J.A. M. A. 133:604-605 (March 1) 1947. Berry, R. L.; Campbell, K. N.; Lyons, R. H.; Moe, G. K, and Sutler, M. R.: Use of Tetraethylammonium in Peripheral Vascular Disease and Causalgic States: New Method for Producing Blockade of chemical Corporation, Union, N. J. Stritch School of Medicine of Loyola University. Autonomic Ganglia, Surgery 20:525-535 (Oct.) 1946. 01151038 