Journal of Chromatography, 202 (1980) 255-261 AV 10l- Elsevier Scientific' Publishing Company, Amsterdam - Printed in The Netherlands CHROM. 13,231 GAS CHROMATOGRAPHY OF SIMPLE MONOCARBONYLS IN CIGA- RETTE WHOLE SMOKE AS TAE BENZYLOXIME, DERIVATIVES Philip Morris Research Center, P.O. Box 26583, Richmond, VA 23261 (U.S.A.) DONALD F. MAGIN (Reccived July 2nd, 1980) sium ptide 30. ouda, SUMMARY A qualitative and semi-quantitative method was established for the investi- gation of low-molecular-weight volatile carbonyl compounds in cigarette whole smoke. The carbonyls were trapped on a silica gel "column" and eluted with water. The aqueous solution was then treated with benzyloxyamine to form the correspond- ing oximes, which were then separated on a short (12 m) FFAP glass-capillary gas chromatographic column with temperature programming, and detected by a nitrogen selective detector. An internal standard was added both as a reference for retention time determinations, and as an aid in estimating the amounts of the individual carbonyls in the smoke samples. INTRODUCTION The detection and analysis of volatile carbonyl compounds in complex matrices have been investigated rather extensively and reported in the literature. Usually, these carbonyls have been analyzed as their 24dinitophenylydazons (2,4-DNPHS), using paper, column, thin-layer, gas and liquid chromatography as Shibasaki and Iwabuchi have determined these compounds in "miso" aroma; Shimizu et al.? in roasted starch; Kallio and Linko in arctic bramble, Pyysalo* and Hirrsalmi et al." in hybrids between raspberry and arctic bramble; Linko et al. in carrots; and Bachmann et al.' in urine. The analysis of simple carbony! compounds in tobacco smoke has also been the subject of much attention, for about the last 25 yearst-1s, again with the majority of determinations made using the 2,4-DNPHS. More recently, a method was described for the preparation of benzyloxime derivatives of simple monocarbonyls", and the work described here applies that method for the use of benzyloxime derivatives to the analysis of carbonyls in cigarette smoke. Briefly, the cigarette whole smoke was passed through a silica gel column to trap the carbonyls, followed by elution with water. The carbonyls werc then converted to the corresponding oximes, which were extracted into diethyl ether. Separation of the oximes was accomplished by temperature-programmed glass-capillary gas chro- matography (GC) on a short (12. m) FFAP column. An internal standard was added 0019013000000050235 C 1980 Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company separation techniques. 