exposure the COHb level remained ated (4.4 percent versus 0.8 : Bared on this time lag, prohibitin aworker exposed to methylene chloride from smoking on the job wourt not be sufficient to protect the worker who smokes after he leaves work from the additive burdens of percent prior to exposure)(80). CO from methylene chloride and tobaccos smoke. 1 6 A   * Other Chemical Agents 1 d: Other chemical agents found in tobacco, or in the combustion of tobacco products, and also potentially found in the workplace include: acetone, acrolein, aldehydes, arsenic, cadmium, formaldehyde, hydro- gen sulfide, ketones, lead, methyl nitrite, nicotine, nitrogen dioxide, Smoking may_contribute to an effect comparable to that which can result from exposure to toxic agents found in the workplace, Coal dust and cigarette smoking appear to act in an additive fashion to produce obstructive airway disease. Although dust exposure alone plays a significant role in the development of this disease, there is a significantly higher prevalence of obstructive airway disease in smoking miners. than in nonsmoking miners with the same dust exposure (41). Flow volume curve data suggest that nonsmoking miners with dust-induced chronic obstructive airway disease have decreased flow rates primarily at higher lung volumes, whercas smoking miners have decreased flow rates at all lung volumes (32). Many investigators have noted that among cotton workers, cigarette smokers show increased prevalence of byssinosis when compared to nonsmoking cotton workers (13, 53, 54, 55). Cotton dust inhalation - produces an acute clinical syndrome consisting of chest tightness, cough, and shortness of breath in cotton workers (34). This was formerly known as "Monday morning fever" since symptoms develop on the first day of work after an absence. The clinical syndrome may be accompanied by signilicant reduction in pulmonary function (52). The acute clinical and functional abnormalitics produced by cotton dust gradually become more frequent as the disease progresses, eventually resulting in chronic obstructive airways disease (34). In the acute phase of the illness there is a significantly greater diminution in pulmonary lunction in smokers than in nonsmokers (55), and the relationship of cotton dust and smoking to pulmonary phenol,and polycyclic compounds (83). thus causing an additive biological effect. Coal Dust A Cotton Dust dysfunction appears to be additive. 7-9 