EXHIBIT C CIGARETTE SMOKING AND HEART DISEASE "The exact mechanisms of how cigarette smoking affects coronary heart disease are still unknown and the subject of considerable research now underway. I Dr. Edward N. Brandt Jr. U.S. Asst. Secretary of Health Testimony before Congress March 1982 The results of three recent, large-scale heart disease "risk factor" intervention studies - MRFIT in the United States (1982), the Oslo Heart Study in Norway (1981-82) and the Rose and Hamilton study in Britain (1982) - do not show that reducing suspected "risk factors," including smoking, reduces The Age-Adjusted Death Rates for Major Cardiovascular Diseas in the United States have been declining dramatically steadily for the past 30 years, while per capita consumption Changes in smoking patterns do not explain the significa decrease in heart disease mortality in the U.S. be tween L1 and 1978. The mortality decline in U.S. women, for exampl came at a time when there was a reported increase in the If "risk factor" changes had played an important part in decline in heart disease mortality, then they should also n ve had a role in reducing the incidence of the disease. By 1982 there was little evidence that the incidence had declined the same time as the mortality rate. A 1982 editorial in the British Medical Journal noted that the decline in U.S. mortality rates was apparent before there were substantial altar in many factors, including smoking. observation had been made by a group at the Mayo Clinic who hac studied the heart disease incidence in Rochester, Minnesota Research published in late 1979 suggested the conclusion, reported by the Framingham Heart Study, that former smok have a reduced risk of heart disease because they stop) smoking may be unreliable. The reason? Because this stuc and others, have failed to compare continuing smokers ar former smokers at baseline - when both groups were smokers. There are major geographical anomalies in data on smoking and heart disease. For example, a ten-year, seven country study published in 1980 found that among Japanese men, the lowest death rate after 10 years was among the heaviest smokers, those the risk of death from heart disease. cigarettes over the same period has increased. smoking. This over a 26-year period. smoking 20 or more cigarettes a day. In Yugoslavia, heart 