- J. R Starist. Soc. A (1978), 141, Part 4 PP. 437-477 Smoking and Lung Cancer: tbe Problem ofinferring Canse By P.R J. BURCH Department of Medical Physies, Unberstty of Leads the President Dr H P. WYNN in the Chair) [Read before tbe ROYAL STATISTICAL Socary on Wednesday, May 17th, 1978, Methodological problems that arise in epidemiology are briely reviewed. Associa- tions between smoking and Jung cancer, and tbeir conpexion witb SCX and country, are described. Secular trepds in recorded mortality from Jung cancer in England and Wales, 1901 to 1970, ae derived from tbe Registrar Geperal's statistics. Estimates are made of tbe expocted treods assuming that the associations found between the various types of smoking and lung cancer relect causation. Observed and. expected trends conflict. Tbe socuiar treods in mortality from lung cancer in Britisb male doctors art also examibed From tbe foregoing and otber types. of evidence it is argued tbat DO definitive conclusions CAD be reached, as yet, about the extent of any causal link betwoen smoking and lung cancer. It is very doubtful, bowever, whether the entire association observed between smoking and lung capde in occidental KEYWORDS: LUNG CANCER; SMOKING; EPIDEMOOLOGY; CONSTITUTIONAL THPORY; SECULAR SUMARY males sbould be interpreied in causali terms. THEORY; PORBIDDEN CLONES TRENDS IN MORTALITY; SEX RATO OF MORTALITY; CARCENOGENESIS, PRECIPITATOR 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1. The dogma that lung cancen is almost eptirely due to cigarette smoking rests largely and necessarily 8 epidemiological studies. Exploration of the mapy aspects of the distribution of disease is indispensable to our understanding of causal. mecbanisms, but its consequences extend far beyond the academic. On the basis of epidemiological findings we are DOW being advised, as ordinary citizens, to avoid lobacco and alcobol; to limit our consumptions of sugar, milk, dairy products, eggs and fatty meats; to rid ourselves of obesity, and to engage in violen: altbough some suggest moderate -pbysical exercise. Tbe Goveroment has responded to the pressures exerted by anti-smoking campaigners witb. legislative and fiscal measures. Because ofthe impact of epidemiology -actual and potential -on our everyday life and babits, it is ofthe uimost importance tbat its metbods should conform to the most stringent 1.2. Malignant discases as a group are widely regarded as being caused mainly by extrinsic ageots and according to Preussmant (1976), "The only discussion still going OD is about the proportion of envisonmeptally related cancer, fgures being mentioned ranging beiwcen 60 and 99-9 per cent." A recent editorial in the Lancet replaces this disturbingly wide range of estinates by the more explicit and casily remembered 90 per cent. Cigarette smoke is geperally 1.3. Statisticians have a special responsibility in this feld and some very eminent practitioners, including R A. Fisber, Berkson and Brownlee, have chalienged these COD- ventional views. Altbougb Dot a statistician, I bave followed and supplemented Fisher's apalysis of tbe association between smoking and lung cancer and in this paper I consider some of tbe problems jnvolved in trying t0 decide wbetber cigarette smoking is a major cal use scientific standards. believed to be tbe leading enviroomental carcibogen. of Jung cancer. 