HETEROGENEITY AND SPECIFICITY OF CLONED LINES OF INFLUENZA-VIRUS- SPECIFIC CYTOTOXIC T LYMPHOCYTES* By T.J. BRACIALE, M. E. ANDREW, AND V. L BRACIALE From tbr Drpartmen! ef Pathology, Washinglan Unumal Shoel A Mrdirinr, St Lows, Musouni 03110 An essential element in our current understanding of the structure of the immu- noglobulin molecule, the organization of the immunoglobulin sene complex, and the regulatory Mhes on B lymphocyte function has been the availability of mono clonal antibody populations derived from myeloma protein. producing plasmacyto mas. In contrast, progress in the study of the antigen recognition structures on T ymphocytes and the factors that regulate T ymphocyte function has proceeded more slowly, probably in part as a result of the necessity of using heterogeneous T lymphocyte populations for these analyses. However, recent technological advances in the long-term culturing and maintenance of T lymphocytes in vitro (1) now offer the possibility of analyzing homogeneous populations of1 T lymphocytes derived from individual T lymphocyle precursors. Several different groups of investigators have isolated continuous cloned lines ofT lymphocytes with functional properties charac. teristic of antigen-specific proliferating T lymphocytes (2, 3), alloreactive cytotoxic and: amplifier T lymphocytes (4), helper Tlymphocytes for humoral responses (3.6 6), and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) -restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) directed to hapten and male (H-Y) antigens (7,8). We have employed this technology in an analysis of the cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response to type A influenza viruses and have derived a series of continuous cloned lines of H-2-restricted CTL directed to influenza virus. In this report we examine the patterns of H-2 restriction and the specificity of viral antigen recognition exhibited by lines obrained from (H-2" x H-2)F, and parental (H-2, H-2) precur. sors. We show that lines of F, origin are restricted in their recognition to infected target cells of either parental haplotype. Similarly CTLI lines of both F, and parental origin appear 10 be restricted to either the H-2K or the H-2D end of the appropriate responding H-2 haplotype. Analysis of the viral antigen specificity of these lines reveals several distinct patterns of H-2-restricted viral recognition, suggesting bonh heterogeneity and specificity in the CTL response to influenza virus at the clonal level. Data on the expression by these lines oft the Thy-1.2, Lyt-1, and Lyt-2 antigenic Supported by grant Al-15608 from the U S Puble Heahh Service and by reuarch suppon from Brown and Williamson Tobacce Corporation; Philip Morris, Inc: R., J Reynolds Tobacco Conpany. and Atermeton aed à chu poper. Con A, concanavalin. A, CTL cytoronic Tlymphoryie. FBS. leralbovine verum; MEM, minimum censial medium; 2-ME, 2-mercaptoethanol. MHC, major hisrocompatibility comples: NBBS, newbom bovine erum, SV4 40, simian virus 40; TOGF.T cell- growth facior (Interlrukin- markers is also presented. the Cnined: Staies Tobacco Company II). 910 - Exp. MED e The Rockeleller Univenity Preu 927.101/1/04/910145100 Volume 153 April 1981 910-923 