PREVENTIVE MEDECINE 6, 526-534(1977) Public Smoking: No. 52 Environmental Carbon Monoxide from Cigarette Smoking-A Critique HELMUT R. R. WAKEHAM' Philip Morris Kesearch Center. Richmond, Virginia 23261 It is often asserted that tobacco smoke in the atmosphere of public places constitutes a health hazard to exposed nonsmokers because of the environmental carbon monoxide gen- erated during the burning of a cigarette. Cigarette smoking is an insignificant source of carbon monoxide in the overall atmosphere as compared with other natural and man-made sources. Evenin tightly closed spaces with a large percentage of smokers, only rarely is it possible to build up concentrations which would exceed the established threshold limiting values for extended exposures. Examples include meeting rooms. houses. buses, and air- craft. Carboxyhemoglobin levels in nonsmokers resulting from carbon monoxide in en- vironmental tobacco smoke are below the amount needed to produce the maximum allowa- ble limit of 4% carboxyhemoglobin in the blood, as suggested by the WorldHealth Organiza- tion. No strong evidence has been found indicating adverse effects in healthy individuals from concentrations of carboxyhemoglobin at or below these levels. Recent publications of the Public Health Service (USDHEW) (42) have cited carbon monoxide (CO) as a harmful constituent in cigarette smoke. A number of investigators (43) have also suggested that smoking contributes significantly to the presence: of environmental CO, especially in closed spaces, and thus constitutes: a hazard to nonsmokers. The purpose of the present study was to explore this latter question andi to define conditions to be encountered in various situations. SOURCES OF CARBONI MONOXIDE It has been estimated that the earth S atmosphere at any given moment contains approximately 530 million metric tons of CO (35,56) (Table 1). Natural and man- made sources produce annually 10: times this amount. Because of the continual consumption of CO in a number of oxidation reactions in the atmosphere and stratosphere, and in microbial actions in the soil, the half-life of atmospheric COis Cigarette smoking worldwide is estimated to produce: only about 0.6 million tons of CO per year, as compared with the estimated total of over 5000 million tons from all sources.. This estimate is based on an average figure of 0.100 8 pe cigarette for both mainstream and sidestream smokes. Clearly, if one is to be concerned about CO from smoking, it musti be from a local concentration point of view, rather than from the total amount available in the atmosphere. For this reason, attentionis usually focused on smoking in enclosed spaces such as rooms, Sendi reprint requests to Dr. Helmut R. R. Wakeham. Philip Morris Research Center. P. O: Box only one-tenth of a year. buses, automobiles, airplanes, arenas, etc. 26583, Richmond, Virginia 23261.. Copyright 0 1977 by Academic Press. Inc. All righis of reproduction in any. form reservedi 526 ISSN 0091-7435 