WALE not er efice:s to har T:: decisi much pre-m novat rure - ficien: Ind rules, there cally : larly infor: custo: wHiel are cr tory Rec involi relief matio proce. dispor beav group erm cies, 1 practi Over fulpt oe. meas tONN Issues in the Regulation of Environmental Carcinogens BAILUS WALRER,JR. and DAVID R. WADE UCHof the effort to reduce our vulherability to cancen is directed towardlamapplicasion ofthe regulatory pro- cess.to the identitication of persons ar high risk and the reduction of their exposures to toxicsubstances for which there is ovidence of carcinogenio potential. This process may be viewed: as consisting ofa number M of essentially sequential steps: the gathering and evaluation of data on tex- icity, on use, on human exposure and cconomie factors; the baiancing of benefits-long-term and short-term-and coStS, followed by implementa- tion of the decision; and the control process. Despite the regulatory au- thority to accomplish tliese steps, progress has been slow in setting stan- dards and in carrying out other activities to prevent the devclopment ofi ncoplasms that would, at later stages, threaten life or health. Resourcsavailables to regulatory agencies arc often limited compared to the magnitude of the problem, and the current ad hoc approach to the regulation of toxic: agents willgrobably continue for the: foresceablo future because of constraints in scientific knowledge. laboratory personnel, tech- nicalipersonnel, teclinical resources, and the complexiy ofsociocconomic, The scope of these issues is muchi too great to be reviewed in a single presentation. This raper shall, tlierefore, be illustrative rather than com- Tlie Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). passed by the Congress in: 19r6aftensix years of cffort, represents one of the most far-reaching.com- prchensiveand complex regulatory programs ever attempred! by the: teder- The philosophy uf TSCA is: that inadequately tested chemicals sliould political, and legal factors to be consideredi prehensive in the topies addressed. ISCA IMPLEMENTATION al governinent. 408 teeskyie esetuu 