JUNB 1981 à urtain," Impact fucator, August Generation, : Vintage Books, Group Research nt to the Exec- Hoover, D.C., and S1.2 Mtbame nd S. Johnson, DS4 edObserver, y1980;" "Evan- ure, 3 (January Are Romping 25, 1980): s: Detroit, Mich: Making Plans 980. ust 1979): 15- -Office Com- orkers. Thomasville, Connecticut S Clean Indoor Air Act DOUGLAS S. LLOYD VER the past few years there has been increasing public concern over exposure to tobacco smoke. The passive smoker" issue has been heightened. by the frequent release of studies on chemicals found in our food, water, and: air. During the seventies, se the climb steady in the incidence oflung cancer cases in to our health, injurious O Connecticut, released from the state' 's Tumor Registry, underscored the cigarette smoking issuc. A close working relationship was fostered between the Connecticut Lung Association, the Connecticut affiliate of the Ameri- can Heart Association, the Connecticut Division of the American Cancer Society,and the Connecticut Health Services Department. Staffand officers met repeatedly on this issue and, in lighr ofother successfullefforts such as Minnesota's clean air act, decided to hold hearings on the subject. A small working group of dedicated staff from these organizations began to generate interest in these hearings. Citizens who had written in to express interest were invited to attend and testify, pro and con. Certain local and national experts were asked to testify. The hearing itself was advertised by press releases andladvisories to news agencics, newspapers, radio, and' television, highlighting the experts expectedi to speak. On November 28, 1978, the Commissioner of Health Services held the prelegislative hearing at Connecticut's Capitol on the need for a law to protect nonsmokers from second-hand smoke. Ie was well attended, pre- dominantly by those citizens whose advocacy for such a law was known.. Many spoke of how they could no longer go to restaurants due to the Representatives of the tobacco industry were also present. Their testi- mony was predictable, reminding all that we did not need more laws restricting individual freedom, that a simple request to put out a cigarette While local physicians brought in the hometown aspect, the wwo most effective speakers were Dr. Marvin Schneiderman, Associate Director of A * smoke, because ofasthma or allergies. was all that was needed.  153 : 