SFUIUUZU, Th CTR - tiN From: BIOLOGICAL Parko, Kocsls, Joliow, Gibson (Planum Publiching Corporation 1982) REACTIVE INTERMEDIATEST. Part A Editud by Snyder, and Witmer MONOOXYGENASE AND EPOXIDE HYDROLASE REGULATION IN PRIMARY FETAL RAT LIVER CELL CULTURE J.E. Gielen", J. De Graeve, Fr. Goujon, P. Kremers Laboratoire de Chimie Médicale et de Toxicologie Institut de Pathologie, Université de Liège, Bât. B 23 B-4000 Sart Tilman par Liège 1, Belgium "to whem all correspondence should be addressed It is now well documented that in nost instances, t'he production and accumulation of reactive internedistes in a living reviev, see" sepentseo Qualitative or quantitative modifications of these enzymatic activities might thue lead either to an enhancement or a decrease in the toxicity of a given chenical. Precise knowledge of the biochenical mechanisns which control these enzynatic systens could be of paramount importance if one wants to predict or modify the biological potential of cells to produce active metabolites. Isolated adult liver cells have been widely used in the last few years for studying drug metabolisp and the enzymatic systems which direct these biotransformations If these cells seem appro- priate for short-tern metabolic studies, they are less adapted to regulation studies, particularly those concerning monooxygenases. vithin the first 24 boure RerE culture It is also questionable those found in rat liver RELISTA Primary fetal rat liver cells in culture contain several monooxygenase and epoxige hydrolase activities which can be induced by a number of chemicals The main problem encountered in using these fetal cella is the fact that, similarly to various hepatoma cell lines, theyi8nly synthesize one form of cytochrone P450, i.e. cytochrome P, 450" : In this report, ve present various lines of evidence demonitrating that a cyto- and J. Van Cantfort INTRODUCTION organism the relative activity of several enzymes (for Indeed, they lose a najor vhether the hemoproteins present of theis cytochrome P450 content cells are identical to 87 