SF005029i hie (71.. LYNCHI Low Serum IgA in a Familial Ovarian Cancer Aggregate Guy S. Schuelke, Henry T. Lynch, Jane F. Lynch, Pamela R. Fain, and Edward A. Chaperon ABSTRACT: Low serum IgA lerels were jound to segregate in o sufficient number of individuals from a femilial ovarian corcinoma aggregate to suggest that this may be u genetically determined imanune defect etiolugically integral to cancer susceptibility in this family. The putative role of IgA in pathogenesis remains elusive. Concer-prone families should be thoroughiy investi- Biomarkers or distinguishing physical signs, or both, which correlate with cancer or its risk may aid significantly in hereditary cancer syndrome identification. How- ever. only a minority of all postulated hereditary cancer or precancer syndromes have been shown to harbor markers of high specificity [1). Therefore. an intensive search is needed for biomarkers that might permit identification of persons at high genetic cancer risk; and in certain circumstances. might aiso provide clues to can- cer etiology and pathogenesis. mmunologic studies appear to be well suited to this task in light of scientific advances in immunogenetics and hypothetica! links be- tween immunologic aberrations and putative carcinogenic mechanisms [2]. Although familial ovarian aancer is inureasingly recognized. consistent biomark- er essociations thal correlate with its risk have remained elusive [3). Recently. Mandell and associates suggested that decreased B-lymphocyte activity may be an important component of the immune abnormalities in ovarian cancer 14j. This phe- nomenon could, in part, explain the lower average immunoglobulin (IgM) levols (s] and the reported low frequency of tumor-specific antibody response in such patients (6). As with tumors in genaral. including those associated with genetically determined immunodeficiency disesses [7), any possible etiologic role of eltered immune function in ovarian cancer patients remains uncertain. One of us (H.T.L.) recently described a family characterized by excessive occur- rences of ovarian carcinoma transmitted in a patlern consistent with an autosomal dominant factor (8). This family is unique in that identical twin sisters each had verified ovarian cancer and each had a daughter with the same lesion. Our purpose is to describe lowered IgA levels seen in this kindred and to inter- pret this aberration in concert with etiology and tumorigenesis. From the Departments of Medical Micnobiology IG.5.5.. EAC CI and Preveutive Medicine Publir Heaith (H.TL.JFL. PREL Creighton Univeraits Schont of Medicine. Omaha. Nebreska Address requests for reprints to Guy S. Schuelke. M.S. Depi. of Medical Microbiology Creighton University Schoal of Medkine 2500 Californio St. Omaha. NE 65178 Hereived junr 29, 19a1: eccepted September 14. 1981. goled for further elucidation of these phenomeno. INTKODUCTION 231 Elsovier Scienor Publashing Co. Inc.. 1982 s2 Vanderbel Are. New York. NY 10017 Canter Genrtics and Ortopenetics 6. 231 23 119821 0165-4600 BE 070231- OHS2 75 