SF05.0709 Twin Research 3: Epidemlologieal 217-223 and Clinical Studles, pages 150 Filth Avenuo, Now York, NY 10011 01981 Alan A. Lies, Inc., in Adult Same-Sexed Twins: Cancer A Historical Cohort Study Markku Koskenvuo, and Eero Pukkale Jaakko Kaprio, Lyly Teppo, Science, Unhversity of Helsinki, and Finnish Cancer INTRODUCTION accepted that most cancers are caused by eavironmental agents. Some The interplay of genetic shown t0 follow Mendelian laws of inheritance (71, and types of cancer have been been demonstrated in a number of other specific cancers familial aggregation has both heredity and to familial transmission of en virontental carcinogenic factors be (10). used for two parposes. First, they can be used to Twin studies on cancer factors can in the etiology of cancer in general and in that of assess the role of genetic As in all studies using the classical twin method, a specific cancers (1, 3. 4, 12). variance cannot be made, but rather an upper limit specific estimate of genetic variance is obtained 18). for the smount of genetic also be applied as a case-control type of study. By study- The twin method can ing the differences in the environmental to identify carcinogenic factors as the twins are dant for cancer, one can altempt matched for genetic and many environmental To investigate the (easibility of such twins cannot be analyzed in such studies. record-linkage cohort study between studies in Finland, we carried out a historical Cancer Registry. the Finnish Twin Registry and the Finnish MATERIALS AND METHODS was created in 1974 from the compaterized Central The Finnish Twin Registry all those sets of persons who satisfled the follow. Population Registry by selecting before 1958; same sex; same surname al birth; ing criteria: same date birth; of birth alive on January 1, 1967. The compilation process same community of noninclusive of triplets and errors of the Central Population Depertment of Public Hoalth Registry, Helsinki l is generally and environmental factors is often relevant 19, 13). 12. 5). Familiarity can be due to exposures between identical twins discor- factors. Faciors that occur In both yielded 21,023 pairs. Registry. 