SF0270042 PROCESS AND INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION AUTOMATIC SMOKE EXPOSURE MACHINE-SEM 1I J. H. Moneyhun and J. R. Stokely Analytical Chemistry Division Oak Ridge National Laboratory Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37830 and L Florant Process and Instruments Corporation Brooklyn, New York 11207 ABSTRACT An automatic Senoke Exposure Machine (SEM 11) bas been designed and constructed by Process and Instruments Corporation to generate a contanueus stream of fresh cigarette smoke lor small-rodent inhalation experiments. Some of the problems associared with imerminent smoking systems, aging of smoke, depletion of the aerosol by animal, and limitations of the number ef animals simultantously exposed are circumvented. The SEM I systemi is desmbed, its operating principlesa and characteristics are explained and chemicai characterization of the smoke delivered. as compared to an analytical system is preented. Introduction Several cigarette smoking systems have been designed and used to study the effect of cigarette smoke aerosol upon the respiratory systems of small animals. Primarily these exposure systems use an intermittent exposure. The aerosol is generated by puffing one or more cigkrettes simultaneously, transferringthe aerosoltoa chamberfrom which theanimals breathe the diluted aerosol for ra prescribed time (usually 30 sec), purging the chamber with breathing air, and then repeating the cycle until the cigarette is consumed. The overall intent of such experiments is t0 duplicate mechanically the smoke environment to which human smok rers areexposed. A smoking regime has been established! tosimulate the' smoking habits of the average smoker, The cigarette is puffed once per minute generating a 35-ml puff during a two-sec period. The cigarette is smoked to a 23-mm butt length. These are only average values and individual smokers may deviate inany yorall off these variables. However, fore exact definition of experimental conditions and reproducibility of experiments an established protocol is required. Cigarettes may be puffed mechanically by pulling air through a cigarette by means ofa vacuum or piston pump or by pushing air through thecigarette (reverse smoking). Systems employing both ofthese principles have been used for inhalation studies. The Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) Maddox' machine used for an inhalation experiment by the ORNL Biology Division uses negative 19 