CIK- Peyor SFU0YUzSr. 91e FREE RADICAL BIOLOGY: XENOBIOTICS, CANCER, AND AGING* William A. Pryor Department of Chemistry Louisiana Stote University Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803 INTRODUCTION 297 lt was not very long ago thal free radical biology was a rather arcane subject, regarded with disinterest (or even disbeliefjby most biologists-a sea of specula- tion. but few islands of solid fact. Three striking and seminal discoveries have The first was the elucidation by McCord and Fridovich of the nature, function, and role of superoxide dismutase (SODI' In fact, SOD is now the world's most studied enzyme: journal articles, conference proceedings. and books on superox- ide chemistry and biology are appearing al a very rapid pace, bul we probably are The second discovery involves the biosynthesis of peroxidic compounds from arachidonic acid-products of what is called the "arachidonate cascade." - Not more than 10 years ago, it was thought that lipoxygenase activity was limited to plants and that lipid hydroperoxides were not formed in animal cells. In fact. thete was even concern that lipid hydroperoxides in plants might be in vitro arlifacts and play no role in metabolism. Nowi it isc clear that an array of cyclicand bicyclic peroxides as well as acyclic lipid hydroperoxides not only occur in all animal cells. but play a very critical role in bioregulation and in many vital The third discovery.alihoughp perhaps more distant from traditional blochemi- cal interests. alsa is having a major impact on current research. It is becoming clear that many important environmental toxins exert their effects through radical-mediated reactions M In fact, a majority of the compounds that are positive in the Ames test may involve radical-medialed reactions. In this article, will summarize current thinking on the in vivo sources of radicals. 1 will cover both exogenous sources-xenobiotics, pollutants. carcino- gens. etc.-and endogenous sources-superoxide systems and the atachidonic cascade. And I will close by making some remarks about the effects of antioxi- dants on carcinogenesis and on the retardation of aging Thus, I intend to skate from thick ice to thinner and thinner ice: with timing. Ishould fall into the FREE RADICALS DERIVED FROM THE REACTIONS OF XENOBIOTICS Several mechanisms are available by which xenobiotis-subslances foreign lo the cell-can react with cellular target molecules to produce damaging "This work was supported granis from the National Science Foundation and the National Inslitules of Health SORLTEs and HL-25820). This manuscript is based on the Reprinted from: "VITAMIN E" (edited by B. Lubin & L. J. Machlin). Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, vol. 393, PP 1-22 (1982) drastically changed this field. still just seeing the tip of the iceberg. normal and pathological processes. refreshingly cool water just at the end of my tport address presented at the sympasium banquet. 