SF004U23 Cir - KUSLLNVile AL Sleep 1982. 6th Eur. Congr. Sleepi Res.. Zurich 1982, Pp.206-208 (Karger. Basel 11983) Human Sleep Length 1 Helsinki, Hekinki, Finland Hereditary and Environmental Determination of M.. Partinen", P T.S. Putkonen* 2 ,J. Kaprio', M. Koskenvuo "Departments of Neurology, *Physiology and'Public Health Science. Univenity of During our previous survey on self-reported sleep characteristics we were impressed by the difference in sleep length between Finnish and corresponding American youths (5). This difference has been found also in other age groups [4). Normative data on human sieep are geographi- cally limited. Thus, it is difficult to assess to what extent such differences reflect cultural and biological factors. Genetic determinants of normal sleep have been studied in mice (6] but are virtually unknown in humans. In a twin study of 177 monozygotic (MZ) and 76 dizygotic (DZ.) twin pairs Gedda and Brenci (1) found no genetic effect in the younger group (6-8 years), whereas increased variability in the older age group(16-18ycan) allowed detection of relatively weak genetic effects for sleep duration (ruz = 0.97, Toz = 0.85, h L 0.23). The authors attributed this to the phenomenon. To estimate the role of genetic factors on sleep length we have compared the self-reported sleep length in MZ and DZ twins of the The present matenal consists of AI adult like-sesed Finnish twin pairs (n - 11,368) bom before 1958, both merabers alive and answering questionnaire maledi in 1975. lathe final analysis pairs m whom one or both members wete on allness pensson, unemployed er doing shift work wete eliminoted to exclude gross external facters Zyposity was determined 'Suppories by a grant from the Finnish Cultural Foundation and also by - grant from ERTS.Aukonen passed away in December 1981. He was supported by the Medical - levelling effect of common environment Finnish twin cohort study [2]. Material and Methods the limiting variability of the a E the Council ol Tobacco Research Inc.. USA. Research Council of the Acadm of FinlarJ. 