L. RHIMI MUNRE Ss IN MUMMUINF R ARC VEIL The Role of Nonsteroldal Regulators in Control of Oocyte and Follicular Maturation CORNELIA P. CHANNING, LAKRY D. ANDERSON, De NNIS J. HUOVER, JAROSI AV KOLENA,* KEVIN G. OSTEEN, SEYMOUR H. POMERAN171 AND Kiyuo TANABE" Ipurimenn u "Phnislog. Anulmn, und Buhagh ul Chrmnuiry. Umrenire uf Alurrhand Selaulof Molunr. Belumure. Muryland SF05/0173 that EDTA mmies Mullenan ired for mainteaance of duci ugnesum, then the Mullerian ung with a number of other EDTA cheletes those ions, 3 DTA and zinc, hecuuse Ine ically the same. and the Za" effecis are not ffeci ul the testosterine und o another Sertul cell, large sbeens shuwn by Tindall and ct is on the mesenchyme or to neutralize the untitumur oclonal antibody which had et repeated those impurtant out the descent of the lestes mudel? There i a humun ined Millerian clements are istakes, there is evidence of ciation berween u defect in 115, .J. Urel. 459, 1976; C. 1, 197))described kindreds n as nermal mules with re- at as well on the side of the h maldescent, und retained had detectable Millerian we could detect MIS in the this child anay have MIS outh of the cvarian tamor blijon of growth of normal rin the nuede mouse since ovarian cancer is that it is invaginale lo form the und therefore may nor l 1. Introduction The ovarian follicle is bathed in a fluid rich in steroid hormones a5 well as nonsteroidal regulators which interact 10 serve to control its matura- tion, responsiveness 10 gonadotropins, as well as to lead to control of the maturution of its oocyte. The mammalinn oocyte remains in the immature dictyate stage of meiosis from shortly prior to or at the time ofbirth untit it matures immedialely before ovulation under the influence of the preovulatory gonadolropin surge. Only the oocyte follicle matures; all of the others remain in the immature dictyate state. Furthermore in the primate only one follicle is chosen 10 mature and ovulate each menstrual cycle. This particular follicle in the case of monotocous species, or a few follicles in the case of polytocous species, is the only one which increases its ability to secrete estrogen and increase in LH receptors in response 10 changing serum LH, and FSH levels. All of the other smaller follicles outside the "chosen" one either stay sma!l and immature or undergo atresia. The mechanisms choosing the selection of the follicle in terms of which one will grow, secrete hormones, and even- tually ovulute are most decidedly local since all follicles are exposed to the same serum gonadotropin levels. Changes in follicular fluid levels of a polypeptide substance, oocyte maturation inhibitor (OMI), may ply a role in controlling oocyte maturation. l appears that OMI is present in follicles except the preovulatory ones (and atretic ones). In addition small follicles but not large follicles conain small- and large-molecular-weigh polypeptides which inhibit FSH induction ofLH receptors and FSH stim- ulation of progesterone secretion and LH binding to granulosa cells. The inhibitor is replaced by an enhancer of FSH action and granulusa proges- in the preovulatory all 331 Coorght r 19R2 by Acadense Mh Ine All ngtis a repralal hun n a lwm rervel ISAN 0-12. iie 