SFUS.0/56 Twin Rescarch 3 and Clinical Studles, pages bplmates, 01 1081 Alan R Liss, Inc., 150 Fifth Avenue, Naw York, NY 10011 Structural Analysis of Smoking, Alcohol Use, and Personality Factors in MZ and DZ Twin Pair Relationships Helmo Langinvalnlo, Jaakko Kaprio, Markku Koskenuo, Department and Lauri Tarkkonen of Public Hoalth Science, University ol Helsinki INTRODUCTION Prychosocial, famillal, and genetic factort affect alcohol use and its relation- ships to other substance abuses. Alcohol-use discordant (win pairs can permit elu- cidation of the environmental determinants of alcohol use and of its correl les to prychosocial While monozygotic factors. (MZ twins have identical genes, and theefore discordance ks, In principle, due to environmental factors, dizygotic (DZ) twins are genetically fall sibs bu are of the same age and often thare the same rearing environment to greater extent than singleton the two sibs of different of twins, ages. MZ and DZ, has been questioned from a number of aspects. Prenatal influences on twins of either type dissim- ilar 125) and variation by chorion type occurs (5). Also, other influences special to twin types exist (8) that have led many inverigators to question the validity of re- sults from twin studies. Despite shorcomings, twin studies offer many advantages unavallable in other data sets In humans [23) Therefore, to be able to utilize twin data, i is necessary to ensure carefully the comparability of the data of twins cf elther type and of singletons, both when making comparisons between twin ifi in types the and when generaliring to the singleton population from twin data. Also, two twin types the relationships between the phenomena under study are compar- the able, it ls more likely that inferences made from MZ trait-discordant palrs on enviroamental determinants of that trait are more likely to be valid. In other worda, internal validity of the data used l enhanced. Thia sudy haat been sapportedt by : pam trom the Counci for Tobacce during Rescurch, perparsion U.SA. of Tbe ce athors paper, would e to thank Timo Alaake M. Sot. Sc., anlatana. for encuragement the and Hel Ria, M. Soc.Se. for progumning The comparability of types are 