SF0500184 - - Volume 10 Nembt 131 1882 Bisuas Nucleic Acids Research Jkc -(T0 Inorcased level of prolactin, geue seqoences in bromodeoxyuridine trested GH cell Debajit K.Bswas" and Steven D.Hanes Laboratory of Pharmacology, Harvard School of Dental Medicine, and Department of Pharmacology. Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115. USA Received 18 February 1982. Revised 12 May 1982:Accepted 26 May 1982 The *hemtmperteatin (BrdUrd") derivative ( of prolactin nonproducing (PRL-) rat pituitary tuor synthesiz prolactin (PRL) in the presence of the drug. Anal- aiu nuclear RNA isolated from Brdurd treated F,BGH, celle den oastrated several high molecular veight observed in the nuclear RHA fraction of mlosiains (PRL*) CH, cells. No such sequences could be detected in nuclear RNA fractlon of un- treated athyu, cells. PRL sequences in the genoae of CH, (PRL*), (PRL") add 120, (PRL", BrdUrdr) GH cells could be idedtified SHh analynia fragment of restriction endonuclease, Hind III DOA. Both and PRL" cells seem to have  digested PRL* level of PRL gene sequencen in total cell DNA. Hcvever Hind III digented DNA of BrdUrd treated celle revealed the prenence of significent! ly higher levele of PRL in cnmparison, to that observed in total A DRA of untreated celle. The increased level of gene seçuences pendent on the period of drug treatment and a parallel increase in the cyto- ploonie MNAPRL sequences vBs eleo observed. Several GH cell etrains (rat piteltary cunor celle in culture) synthe- aise different amounts of prolactin (PRL) and grovth hornone (GH) (1). Such hormone prodactions by CH cells are ditferentiated functions. Though these celle are tranaformed ones, they tetain several properties of hormone syn- thesie and secretion which ate characteriat: ic of a normal pituitary gland. GI cells also respond to physiological podulatora auch es thyroliberin (TRH) and hydrocortisone (HC) in a manner slaflar to normal pituitary gland (i). The process of celluler ditferentiation and developaent in higher organiens 1e usuelly associated with selective gere ectivation and/or gene suppreseion. Overproduction of a specific gene product in achieved either via regulation of tranecriptional and/or translational rates (e.g. production of ovalbumin in hen oviduct in reaponse to estrogen (3.4), globin wyntheste during erythre- pelesio (5.6), fibroin synthesis in silk gland (7,8) or by increasing the nuaber of gene coples, 1.c. by gene emplification (e.g. TRNA gene auplifica- ARSTRACT ratracmcy seqdencen, Sml to chose the sane van de- approxinately PRL € IRL Prets Limited, Oxford. England. 0305 10480210133032000 3986 