Be. He CIR BIn 6- SF050030 Chapter 8 : Cardiovascular Disease in the Alcoholic RI. Bing and R.I L Weishaar, Huntington Memorial Hospital, Pasadena, Caltforniat 8.1 THE CLINICAL EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL ON THE HEART The teratogenic effects of alcohol were discovered in 1968 in France by Lemoine and his colleagues This discovery was followed by publicatioas by a paediatric resident, Ulleland (Ullaland et al, 1970), and by Jones and Smith (1973). Loser described the syndrome in Germany and called it the "embryo- foetal alcohol syndrome' (Loser et al, 1975). It is now suspected that the incidence of cardiac malformation in this condition may be as high as S0%, If not higher (Jones and Smith, 1973; Loser et al, 1975). The foetal alcohol syndrome can be grouped iato four categories: (1)central nervous systom dysfunction, (2) growth deficiency, (3) a characteristic chuster of facial abnormalities, and (4) variable major and minor malformations (Clamren and Smith, 1978). The amount of alcohol which establishes a risk with ingestion u thought to be roughly 3 o2 of absolute alcohol or 6 drinks of hard liquor per day, but there ls still uncertainty as to whether small amounts of alcohol ingestion may also cause damage. The efore pregnant women and those likely to become pregnant should discuss thelr drinking habits and the poteatial The cardiac lesions observed in this condition consist primarly of atrial septal defects (Lour and Majewski, 1977). Other malformations also may be present, such as hypoplastic left pulmonary arteries or Tetralogy of Fallot. Cardlomyopathy ls not present. E= has been established (Pikkaninen and Raihi, 1967; Seppila, Riihi and Tamminen, 1971) thar the high vulnersblity of the foetus to alcohol is the result of very low concentrations of alcohol dehydrogenase in the liver, as weil a to reduced alcohol clearance, factors which tSupported grants from The Marguret w. and Herbert Hoover, Jt. Foundation, The Council for YemEs Reserch U.SA, Ine. and from the Institutes for Alcohol und Dru Abuse, National Institutes of Heaith (Grant es ROI AA00304-05). 8.1.1 The Foetal Alcobol Syndrome danger with their physician. thaNt the toxic effects of alcohol. 