SFC6000? Journal ofLeukocyte Biologs 35:39-54 (1984) he MUKPHY 1 - à CIE Heterogeneity Among Alveolar Macrophages in Humoral and Cell-Mediated Immune Responses: Separation of Functional Subpopulations by Density Gradient Centrifugation on Percoll Mary Ann Murphy and Herbert B. Herscowitz Department of Microbiology, Georgetown University, Schools of Medicine and Rabbit alveolar macrophages (AM) were separated into four subpopulations by centrifugation on discontinuous density gradients ol Percoll. The subpopula- tions were compared to unseparated AM populations for their ability to provide accessory lunction to adherent cell-depleted splenocytes for antigen-stimu- siedymphoproliferation: and for the production oflymphokine. They were also tested for their abilty to modulate in vitro plaque-lorming (PFC) responses. AM subpopulations that provided accessory function for the production of migra. tion inhibitory factor (MiF)containing culture supernantants were recovered from the least dense fractions of the Percoll gradients. These celis were cytochemically characterized as mature cells. AM that suppressed the in vitro PFC response and augmented the antigen-stimulated vymphoproliferative re- sponse to the greatest degree were recovered from the most dense tractions ol the Percoll gradients and were characterized as immature cells. These results suggest that there are distinct subpepulatins of AM. tho function of which may represent different: stages of maturation (or differentiation). Key words: alveolar macrophages, subpopulations, Percoll density gradients lt has been spal thal alveolar macrophages (AM) play an important role : host defense through their involvement in the generation and regulation of local Presenied. in part. at the Ninrteenth National Mecting af the Reticuloendotheltal Society. St Loun. Reprim requess lu: H.B. Herscowitz, Department of Microbokgy, Gcorgelman Unrvensily. Schools of Medicine and Dentiury. 3900 Reservoir Rnad. N. W.. Washington. DC. 20007. Dentistry, Washington INTRODUCTION Recrived August 19, 1983. MO. 0 1984 Alan R. Liss, Inc. 