SFeG.0lii. 000297 Aie Pock CIR Regulatory Peptides and Neuron-Specific Enolase in the Respiratory Tract of Man and Other Mammals * J. M. Polak and S. R. Bloom ABSTRACT: Thi sbort rein deals writb tbe distribution and cellelar loarliaation, in tbe nipinatun tat, af fur ngulatery peprida (utstame P. bonbrsin, raaacint intamnal polwund (17PI. cbolaqurolunin, and somutastatiu) and 4f a mely discorered naroendsrime emsjer auri.r. crw- rom-perife molase. Bonbesin : found in opnal mwesal endscrin alls. uborert the otkr rren- latory roids-principally sabitaner P and VIP-ane foand. i sguptant anetraitots. IE automorir reves of tbe wall d rhe airnays. Substanr P. N pulathe muretranjwithy. 1 fowad in autemomir ere ciady anociated with the wandal qpithelinn Lram2 the braorhial imuath mucle. VIP nerie, on the arber hand. appaar predonunentiy to inmenatt bud mssels, serpuws glands of the upper rupiratery tradt. and breerbial smootb maxie. The prueue 4 werou-ipeifr molase in both murosal APUD uells and anlonsmit NTies bas antebli tbi anudy dueered serronal ezyme as a aseful marker for thr entirt neurondacrinr Jystem 4 the lasg aud its derit- The idea that the lung has a local regulatory system is more than 40 years old. In 1938, Feyrter (1) postulated that local (paracrine) control was exerted by a system of "clear" cells, diffusely scattered in most peripheral tissues, including the lung. Feyrcer's concept supported Hamperl's (2] observations of che close morphologic similaricies berween endocrine neoplasias (carcinoids) of the gas- trointestinal tract, also an area rich in clear cells, and those of the lung. In 1965 (3), the presence of ultrastructurally identifiable secretory granules in Feyreer's "clear" cells further confirmed the endocrine narure of these cells. In addicion, electron microscopy has permitted che classification of these lung en- docrine cells into at least chree separate types, characterized by the presence of distinct secretory granules (4). That the cells produced regulatory peptides was later suggesced by Pearse in 1968 (51. when he formulated his APUD concepte, which linked the cellular components of the APUD system with the production of peptide hormones. Pearse's concept was "followed by the suggestion of Said and Mutt, in 1969. that pulmonary tissue might release a vasoactive substance 16). However, the first evidence for regulatory peprides in the lung did not come for another 8 years. In 1977 che distribution and cellular localization of bom- besin, a regulatory-albeit not vasoactive-peptide was teported in the human *for E more updated tevitn of the held, the auchors referred en Bloom SR. Polak IM. Lin. denlaub (eds Y Diesbutson ot regulaicry perudes in the respitatery tract of man and mammals. In: The Systemec Role of Regulatory Peptides. Sturigart, Schattauct Verlag. 1982. Chapter 13. Addret cmipendimr ped mymeni fe mprier t. Julis M. Pwlat. Hunabmutr Uart. Dfartmet y Hangathelgs. Hanneinuo Hapaal. Dau Rnad. Lenden. #72 OlIS. Exgland atin nesplasnus. INTRODUCTION F Rereund Apual IUNI: aupind 12 Al 1932. Erpeumend lunp Rrwanh 114 6 1ee C Lhuse Nirne Puhhhine h m. s Vanderbi Ave Nes Turk, XY a 313 OMSTINKJAMNN 1-dert 