SF0710401 N.E. Miller and B. Lewis (Eds.) Lipoproteins, Alherosclerosisend Coronary Heart Disease e Esewier/Norih-fioliend Biomedical Press, Amsterdem 31 Tie (TE- : - + CHAPTER 2 : METABOLISM OF LIPOPROTEINS AT THE CELLULAR LEVEL IN RELATION TO ATHEROGENESIS D. STEINBERG Introduction Division of Meiabolic Disease and Specialited Cenler of Research on. Arieriosclerosis, Department of Medicine, University of Califernia, San Dlego, La. Jolla, CA 92093 (US.AJ While a linkage between hyperlipidaemia, particularly hypercholesterolacmia, and accelerated atheroger.esis is generally accepted, there is still a great deal of uncertainty regarding the cellular mechanisms involved. Long before the nature of the plasma lipoproteins was understood, it was postulated that when cholesterol levels in the blood were high the rate of infiltration ("insudation") into the artery wall would be correspondingly high and lead to the accumulation of lipids typical of the atherosclerotic lesion (see Chapter 6). This time-honoured hypothesis can be restated in modern terms LS follows: "When plasma lipoprotein levels are elevated, the: rate of their uptake and degradation is correspondingly elevated and lesions rich in cholesterol esters and other lipids are initiated". This is a "bare-bones" hypothesis, however, and it must be extended and refined to deal with the complex patterns of plasma lipoproteins, the integrated architecture of the arterial wall, the ::ultiplicity of cell types represented and the dynamics of lipoprotein metabolism at the cellular level. What is the relative importance of the several lipoprotein classes? At what rate and by what mechanism do they traverse the endothelial lining? Which of the cell types in the artery wall are critically involved? To what extent is lipid deposition reversible? We know that cholesterol, while it cannot be catabolized at any significant rate by extrahepatic tissues (other than the adrenal and the gonads), can leave cells. Deposits of cholesterol in xanthomata and in arterial lesions are mobilized when plasma lipoprotein levels are appropriately lowered. Conceivably, then, atherosclerosis could develop, even in the face of normal plasma lipoprotein 