LA GKNERAL INSPNUCTIONS Type of Siudy:. The purtose pf'this study ic to determinc respondent's reactions to various advértising cumpaigas for Cligible Ruspondents: Intervicwing will be conducted with malcs and females who are between tho ages of 18-40 and smoke full-flavored" cigarettes. Thc following is a des- cription of the brando arid types of full-flavored cigarettes cigarettes. respondent must t smoke most uften: Camel Filtnrs Chestorfield Filters Marlboro Kegular/185mm) King Size old Gold Filter Kings Raleigh Filter Kings Tarcyton Regular/485mu) King Size Viceroy Regular/(GSmn) Xing Size. Winston Regular/(ESmn) King size If the respondent dces-not sncke any of the ahove listed branda most often, terninate. These brands muct also be filter, non- menthol, and eithor regular or king size. Ploase follow the suieencr ciosely to be sure the respondent smokes the ccrrect brand, type and size cigarettc. Quota: Each intervicwer will be apcignod to complcte 10 intervicws; 6 of which are to be with nales,. and 4 aie to be with fomalec. Please follow Lhe breakdown of males and femcles - by. these age cateyories: Quota of 6 Males: A minimum of 4 males must be bctween the ages of 18-30. No more than 2 nales are to he OVAr 30vears of age. A minimum of 3 females must be between the ages of 18-30. No. more than I female is to he over 30 yoars of age. It Method: will ba Since the incidence of qualifica respondents is 10s, nocessary to scrcen telephonc first, and set up appointrents for personal incardeseic Telephone sereaning should be conducted no nore. than 2-3 dnys hefore thc actual intervicwing. Tf these appointmerts arc sct vp Luu would advance, a respondent could forgat about it, and you have to begin scrcening again in order to replace any broken appointments. IE migh: be a gcod idea to.sct 4 extra appointments (1 in caca respondent category! in case of any broken appcintment appointments. However, you shauld cancel any "ctand. by" Quota of 4 Females: (personal) far in once you sce that you can fill your quota with your original respondentc. 