of over $166 million annually, and that its practice of granting the state-omned Thai Tobacco Monopoly ecclunive production and distribution rights in Thai rarketa violates international trade Iaws. The petition also noted that Thailand's acice taxes aze higher on cigarettce that include foreign tobaoco leaf, and that the country's investment lmd preclude foreign investment in its tobacco idustry. Lastly, the petition noted Thailand's linitation of cigarette advertising to the print media, a The USCEA comprises Philip Morris Inc., R.J. Reynolds Tabacco Co., and Brown a williamson Tobacco Corp., who jointly produce 98 percent of all since accopting the cape last May, USIR has reforrid the central issues in the dispute - Thailand's alleged distribution and import restrictions to U.S. inports - to the 97-serbar General Agreement a Tariffs and Trade for consideration, but USTR also set a donestic deadline of Nov. 25, 1990, for rasolution of the entire cane. On Yay, 16, GATT naibers annouricod the formation of an expert panel to cornie, the dispute (see related report this issue). And in an unusual nove, both the United States and Thailand agread that the panel should be permitted to draw frem the expert opinion of the World Health Organization in fommjlating its decision, GATT spokesran on a separate bilateral track, U.S. officials confired that issues such as Thai invoatment prchibitions, advertising, distribution, pricing, and laboling policios are being addressed by U.S. negotiatoro. Houover, a U.8. trade official, who asked not to be identified, stressed that by taking the oomplaint forward, "we are simply senking treatment for American companies equal to that the Thai govermment accorde its own monopoly." L Other vitnesses at Waxman's hearing included representatives of the U.S. tobacco industry, the American Canoer Society, and the Gereral Acccunting office, which released a study examining the differences between U.S. cigarette export policles and public health concems (see related report practice sinilarly eaployed by the United States. U.S.-made oigarettes. Moet Of Coeplaint Defore GATT David Woods aqplained. this iasue). NEWS_INTL 23-MAY-90 Internaticnal Trade Reporter May 23, 1990 REPCRT SAYB. BUSH ACMINISIRATION EXPORT POLICIES AT ODCS NITH PUBLIC HEALTH GOALS, GAO The Bush administration's policies toward cigarette exports "work at cross purposes" with its public health goals, according to a study released The study, Trade and Hoalth Insues: Dichotany, Batween U.S. Tobacco Export Policy and Antimoking Initiatives, said that efforts by the U.5. Trade Bepresentative's office to open tobacco markets overseas and U.S. Department of Agriculture export promotion initiatives - the cooperator market developnent program, targeted export assistance progran, and export Mey 17 by the General Accounting Office. 15 