LUVINGION & DURLING Bernard Tannenbaum, Esq. March 5, 1968 Page Two lof any rights on the part of that company to negotiate. It is simply an undertaking that you will accord to every applying cigarette manufacturer, whether or not ia participant in the program, terms and conditions as favorable as those you have previously given or may thereafter give to any other cigarette company. If during the course of the testing program, which I am sure you will understand will be a costly undertaking for the participating companies, you are to offer to one of them a particular deal, another company who would thereafter desire to avail itself of the process would expect to get the same terms and conditions. In my view, the provision would not only promote the wider use of the process if the claims for it were confirmed by that independent evaluation and in this sense would in no way be a restraint upon your negotiations. Mr. Beck undertook to canvass with Dr. Hudson the re- - quest made for the data supporting Appendix IX in his latest Bluc Book and the ambiguities concerning the suggestion that Dr. Hudson or one of his representatives "be present at all times to see that everything is done properly. II I assume that neither you nor he has had an along, I communicated the discussions on February 23rd to each of the participants. I am hopeful that t you can reconsider your position on paragraph 4 of the letter of August 1, 1967, or amplify your objections to it possibly leading to clarification of the provision if that seems necessary. Just as soon as I hear from you about clarification of the point about Appendix IX and the insistence in Mr. Beck's letter of January 15, 1968 that Dr. Hudson be constantly present during the in- dependent evaluation, I will promptly send these mate- rials to all of the participants. If that can be ac- companied by some further word from you about para - graph 4, I believe it will contribute to expediting In addition, in our meeting on February 23rd, opportunity as yet to clarify that point. In keeping with my desire to move this project consideration. Sincerely yours, 