Through the Action Against Access initiative, Philip Morris U.S.A. is taking several unilateral steps to help prevent minors from having access to cigarettes. Philip Morris U.S.A. no longer provides free cigarette samples, nor do we send cigarettes through the mail. All packs and cartons of our brands produced for sale in the U.S. now carry a notice stating "Underage Sale Prohibited." These packs are now starting to appear at retail. Philip Morris U.S.A. is funding a major effort to educate retailers about the importance of understanding and enforcing minimum age laws. Also under development is a plan to suspend retail merchandising benefits to retailers who have been fined or convicted of selling cigarettes to Philip Morris U.S.A. is also taking a leadership position in supporting reasonable state In total, the Action Against Access initiative represents a heartfelt commitment to address However, we believe that the plan announced by FDA Commissioner Kessler goes far beyond the youth smoking issue and that his long-term goal is to severely restrict and ultimately ban the sale of cigarettes to adults. At the very least, the FDA's plan will unreasonably restrict free speech and our right to market our products to adult smokers. minors. legislation to further address the issue of youth access to cigarettes. the very serious issue of underage smoking. Among other things, the FDA's plan includes the following: limited to a black-and-white, text-only "tombstone" format; Except in certain "adult" publications, cigarette advertising and signage would be A ban on the use of brand names on non-tobacco merchandise, such as caps, T-shirts and lighters; A ban on self-service displays; and, A ban on brand sponsorship of musical, cultural and sporting events, such as Marlboro In addition to our concern that the FDA plan would infringe on our ability to market and sell cigarettes to adults, we also believe that FDA regulation of cigarettes is illegal. Congress, and only Congress, has the authority to change the FDA's mandate to include regulatory authority over cigarettes. And in the more than 20 times that Congress has specifically been asked to address the issue, Congress has never given the FDA any authority whatsoever over Racing. cigarettes. 1 