PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. 120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592 GEOFFREY C. BIBLE PRESIDENT ANO CH HIEF XECUTIVE OFFICER November 1995 10, Mr. Arthurs. Stevens 1 Park Ae 18th Fl New York, NY 10016-5802 Dear' Mr. Stevens: I am writing to ask for your help in opposing a very serious threat to our business - the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) unprecedented and illegal assertion of On its face, the FDA's action would seem only to affect our Philip Morris U.S.A. tobacco operations. But I can assure you, if the FDA succeeds in its efforts, the effects could be much As most of you know, in August, FDA Commissioner David Kessler, with President Clinton's support, asserted jurisdiction over tobacco products and unveiled a plan for FDA regulation. Commissioner Kessler claims that the FDA's plan is designed to prevent minors I hope that you will agree that turning back Commissioner Kessler's efforts to regulate our tobacco products is of paramount importance. I also hope that we can count on you to take action by writing to your members of Congress expressing your opinion that FDA regulation of cigarettes is both illegal and unwarranted. You can write to your elected officials at the regulatory control over the cigarette industry. broader. from smoking. following addresses: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato 520 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Carolyn B. Maloney Longworth House Office Building Room 1504 Washington, DC 20515 Senator Daniel Moynihan 464 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 4 u - 5n a J For your convenience, I have provided some writing points, which, if you agree with the Philip Morris agrees absolutely that minors should not smoke and should not have access to cigarettes. In fact, in June of this year Philip Morris U.S.A. announced a major new initiative - called Action Against Access - to address the issue of youth access to cigarettes. message, you can feel free to use in your letters to your legislators. 