PHILIPA MORRIS PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. GEOFFREY C. BIBLE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 120 PARK AVENUE NEW YORK, NY 10017 March 19, 1998 DEAR STOCKHOLDER: You are cordially invited to attend the 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Philip Morris Companies Inc. The meeting will be held at 9:00 a.m. on Thursday, April 30, 1998, at the Philip Morris Manufacturing At the meeting, we will elect 14 directors and act upon the selection of auditors. If presented, we will also vote on two stockholder proposals. There will also be a report on the Company's business, and We anticipate that a large number of stockholders will attend the meeting. As seating is limited, we suggest you arrive by 8:30 a.m. when the auditorium will be opened. If the auditorium is filled, there will be additional seating outside the auditorium from which the proceedings may be viewed. Those needing special assistance at the meeting are requested to write the Corporate Secretary at 120 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017. If you are a registered stockholder and plan to attend the meeting, please detach and retain the admission ticket that is attached to the proxy card. If your shares are held in the name of a broker or other nominee and you do not have an admission ticket, please The vote of each stockholder is important. You can vote by signing, dating and returning the enclosed proxy card. Also, this year registered stockholders may vote for the first time by telephone or over the Internet. Instructions for using these convenient new services are set forth on the proxy card. urge you to vote your proxy as soon as possible. In this way, you can be sure your shares will be voted at the Center, 3601 Commerce Road, Richmond, Virginia. stockholders will have an opportunity to ask questions. bring proof of your share ownership to the meeting. meeting, and you will spare your Company the expense of a follow-up mailing. Sincerely, lee For further information about the Annual Meeting, please call 1-800-367-5415 TI3148-9007 