potential increases in excise taxes at the state level would be far higher still. Respected Wall Street analysts have recently predicted that in the fifth year the increase in the price of cigarettes at retail would exceed $2.50 per pack - a predicted increase based on the mandated annual payments alone without taking into account inflation. This regressive tax would be in excess of $1,000 per year for average smokers (the majority of whom earn less than $30,000 Beyond assessing these extraordinary monetary payments, the Bill would also destroy any possibility ofpredictability by leaving in place a system ofuntrammeled tort litigation. The billions of dollars of required payments do not even necessarily result in settlement of the State Attorneys General suits: the States can opt out with no resulting diminution in the industry payments. The Bill also eliminates virtually all of the civil liability limitations of thc Junc 20th settlement applicable to our tobacco business except for an annual cap on liability. But even this civil liability provision in the Bill is a mirage. The Bill calls for the liability cap to be revoked in response to a variety of developments over which we have no or very little control. To give just one example, the cap may be revoked at the discretion of the Secretary of Health and Human Services if one of the arbitrary targets for reduction in underage smoking is missed by more than 20 percentage points and the Secretary determines that underage use of our domestic subsidiary's brands was "responsible' - not that we or our subsidiary did anything wrong. Let me emphasize that we are committed to discouraging and preventing underage smoking, but we cannot accept a "settlement" in which our purported "benefit" is forfeited if teenagers don' 't do what we and society want. The Bill exacerbates the issue of FDA-decreed Prohibition. Indeed, it would expressly confer that authority: the FDA would be empowered to decree an outright ban on tobacco products, an outright ban on nicotine, or virtually anything else it wishes to mandate regarding the content of cigarettes that it determines in its discretion to be in the furtherance of "the protection of the public health. The only practical limit on this virtually unrestrained authority is an exception that would permit both houses of Congress to vote down a complete ban on tobacco products or nicotine within two years of the FDA's institution of such a ban. Far from delineating specifically what federal bureaucrats could and could not do, the Bill simply leaves the tobacco industry's annually). continued business operations to the discretion of an unelected federal agency. Finally, the Bill purports to introduce prohibitive restrictions and taxes on our international Global application of the Bill's severe advertising and promotion restrictions even if competitors in foreign countries could advertise and promote without restriction thereby placing American manufacturers at an extreme competitive disadvantage overseas. These advertising and promotion restrictions would apply not only to tobacco products exported from the U.S., but to products manufactured abroad by our foreign subsidiaries as well. Global application of the domestic requirement that cigarettes be sold only in black and white tobacco company's business. These include: packaging (except in "adult only" establishments). 3 TI3148-9004 