accepted, resolutions of several of the most sensitive issues, such as the amount of industry monetary payments and the basis on which it would be appropriate to bar punitive damages claims based on past conduct. Unfortunately, it has now become clear that the process has become wholly politicized. Some political leaders have been more concemed with appearing to be "tough" on tobacco than with the practical policy implications ofl legislative proposals. Few involved in the political process have been willing to say "no" in any way to so-called public health advocates who seek nothing less than the bankrupting ofthe tobacco industry and the early or eventual Prohibition of tobacco products. The Bill sponsored recently by Senator John McCain and approved 19-1 by the Senate Commerce Committee is the product of this "process." Although critical aspects of the legislation's S plan would require the industry's consent, the industry was excluded from discussion both with the Administration about its monetary demands and with Senator McCain and his staff about the drafting of the Bill. The Bill substantially changes the June 20th settlement in almost every material respect. In fact, although the Bill calls for the tobacco industry to participate, to waive its constitutional rights, and to pay well over half a trillion dollars in the first 25 years, it does not provide the industry with predictability or any other meaningful benefit. In short, it is not a "settlement" at all, and thus is not something in which we can participate. The price terms of the Bill are totally unreasonable. The nominal 25-year total has been increased to well over one-half a trillion dollars. But this is only part of the story. Among other Whereas the annual payments under the June 20th settlement were all to be adjustable for actual declines in sales volumes, the first six annual payments under the Bill totaling over $115 billion are fixed without regard to actual level of sales. No matter how much sales volume declines, and even if the FDA bans or radically alters tobacco products during this period, the The ostensible "$1.10 per pack" charge portrayed by the Bill's supporters as being the price of the Bill's payments is simply wrong and misleading. Taking into account realistic estimates of the volume declines that would likely occur (even in the absence of FDA action), the actual amount that the industry would be required to pay would be more on the order of $1.70 per pack or higher. And that is before additional payments of up to $6.5 billion per year for litigation judgments and settlements; uncapped liability for ZRIOS of attorneys' fees to plaintiffs' attorneys; and after the first three years an additional potential $3.5 billion per year in "look-back" penalties (which are now specified to be non-tax-deductible). Under the Bill's provisions, the total cost per pack to be paid by the industry could thus be more than Further, the increase in retail price to the consumer taking into account both required and realistic mark-ups at the distribution and retail level, the effect of state and local sales taxes, and things: industry still would have to pay this huge fixed sum. double the advertised "$1.10 per pack." N TI3148-9003 