Mr. Christopher J. Ferraro January 4, 1991 Page 3 property- damager Hhe-ceertificate-eate-of-insurence- must-name-eas-en additional insured and provide that-EM-mast-nave at least thirty days' prioz.urittermotice of any cancellation or modification of 8. Termination. If any federal, state, municipal or local law, regulation, ordinance, ruling or judgment becomes effective that makes the promotion of tobacco products as contemplated by the Agreement unlawful or impracticable or materially reduces the value of the Agreement to PM, the Agreement may be terminated by PM as of the date that the law, regulation, ordinance or ruling becomes effective, and Promoter will refund to PM all amounts paid to Promoter by PM hereunder during the Term. If the Agreement is so terminated, Promoter may deduct from the refund all nonrecoverable costs incurred by 9. Notices. Any notice given under the terms of the Agreement must be in writing and delivered by United States certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and if to Promoter, at the address set forth above, attention: Mr. Christopher J. Ferraro, and if to PM, to Philip Morris U.S.A., 120 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, attention: Director, 10. Governing Law. The Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and Ehe incuranee. Promoter on behalf of PM. Events Promotions. entirely performed in New York. 11. Miscellaneous. 11.1 Force Majeure, acts of God, or other causes beyond the control of either party delaying or causing the cancellation or delay of the Event will not subject Promoter or PM to any liability hereunder, except if, and to the extent, otherwise specifically provided 11.2 The Agreement may not be modified or amended except by a writing signed by both parties. No waiver of a breach of any term of the Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any subsequent breach of that term or any other term or a general waiver. 11.3 The Agreement may not be assigned by either party  without the written consent of the other. 11.4 This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between the parties on its subject matter and herein. D- A 