oe1 Aot PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. 120 PARK. AVENUE NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592 GEOFFREY C. BIBLE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER April 20, 1998 Dear Stockholder: I am writing to you to address recent developments concerning the federal legislation need- Last April, we sat down with State Attorneys General, class action plaintiffs' lawyers and public health representatives in an effort to resolve the numerous issues that have arisen concerning tobacco use in the United States. At that time, we faced significant litigation and regulatory risks to our domestic tobacco business, including a large and growing number of health-care cost recovery actions brought by various State Attorneys General; numerous class and individual smoking and health actions; and assertion of regulatory authority by the Food & Drug Administration under a statute that, if determined by the courts to be applicable to tobacco products, could permit the FDA to alter those products radically or to ban them outright. We did not believe that endless litigation was in the long-term best interests of our stockholders, employees, customers, consumers, and ed to implement the settlement that the tobacco industry reached on June 20, 1997. suppliers. We believed that, if we could achieve a comprehensive settlement of all of these issues on terms that would give us predictability in our continuing business operations, it would be a better alternative for everyone. After eleven weeks of difficult, good-faith negotiations, we reached such an agreement: one that was very hard on the tobacco industry, but that would have permitted the 50 million adult Americans who choose to smoke to continue to do sO without the endless debate and recrimination that have surrounded tobacco for decades. Some of the agreement's terms were a bit- ter pill for us. They would have involved our voluntary waiver of certain constitutional rights (including our rights to conduct much of our advertising and marketing), and would have had a material adverse effect on the financial performance of our domestic tobacco business. Nevertheless, they would have provided us with a predictable business environment. The agreement would have required the industry to make very large payments in perpetuity: $368.5 billion over the first 25 years alone, subject to adjustment to reflect inflation and volume reductions. Comprehensive, sensible FDA regulation would have been specifically defined. And the settlement would have resolved the State Attorneys General lawsuits, placed limitations on our civil liability going forward, and avoided the possibility of FDA prohibition of tobacco sales to adults. 8 N 3 While we were under no illusions that this settlement, which required legislative implementation, would be adopted word for word by the Congress, we had good reason to expect that it would not be totally rewritten in every material respect. The Clinton Administration closely monitored the negotiations leading up to the June 20th settlement. It suggested, and the parties 