Jordan- Now that the "Take 10" tours are over, we'd like to post a recap on 2take10.com. Below is suggested copy and photos for your review. We have provided a general overview of the tours and sample pictures from each market. Please note that we have not received photos from our final tour stop--Phoenix-yet. We will have those photos on Monday and will forward a suggested shot for the recap page for your review at that time. Let us know what you think. Thanks. ----Original Message---- From: Trogo, Sarah Sent: Tuesday. November 20. 2001 4:25 PM To: Wintrey Harris, Tamara Subject: Re-Revised copy for each city (His nar no is Doug Vaughn -right?) During the Fall of2001, "Take 10" and Dr. Michael Popkin reached out to hundreds of parents through a five-city tour, featuring a FREE workshop: "Character, Discipline and Parenting in the 21st Century. l During the two-hour interactive seminars, Dr. Popkin gave parents tools to begin talking to their kids about not smoking and other difficult topics. Parents who attended the workshops received free resources to guide them as they put Dr. Popkin's advice into practice. "Take 10" and Dr. Popkin would like to thank all of the organizations that helped make the tour a success, including: Camp Fire USA Texas Council (Ft. Worth) Family Life Council of Greater Greensboro (Greensboro, NC), ELON Homes for Children (Charlotte, NC), The Family Center (Charlotte, NC), San Diego Public Libraries (San Diego, CA), Southwest Behavioral Health Services (Phoenix, AZ) and the Christian Family Care Agency (Phoenix, AZ). Click below to see pictures from the tours. [Click here for images from the 5-city tours] DALLAS/FT. WORTH, TX-- <<Take ten_ DR Popkin13. jpg>> Parents in were able to explore free resources at the "Take 10" display in Ft. Worth, Dr. Popkin's "punishment exercise" reminds parents in Ft. Worth of what it's like to be on Texas. <<Take ten_DR Popkin62.jpg>> the receiving end of discipline. GREENSBORO, NC : <<Pic 9. jpg>> September 13 was "Take 10" Day in Greensboro, NC. Councilman Doug Vaughn presents Dr. Popkin with a certificate commemorating the day. 81882693 