SUBSECT 7e65 Smoking in Relation to the Death Rates of One Million Men and Women - E. CUYLER HAMMOND, Statistical Research Section, Medical Affaire Department, American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York A large number of men and women wero enrolled in a prospective study in late 1959 and early 1960 and have now been traced 4 times at annual intervals (1). Their pbysical complaints, smok- ing habits, and the relationship between these habits and complaints have been reported (2-5). After 3 years of follow-up, a report was made on morbidity and mortality in relation to the smoking habits of the male subjects (6). This paper includos data on both sexes. Particular attention is given to a comparison of men and women with respect to the degree of association betweon smoking and death rates. The paper is divided into five parts: introduction, a description of the material and mothods, findings on total death rates (i.6., death ratos from all causes combined), Gndings on various specific causes of death, and an Appendix More men than women smoke (3, 4). The difference is' considerable among peoplo of early middle age and even greater among older people. Furthermore, female smokers (as' a total group) are not comparable to male smokers with respect to type or amount of smoking, With few exceptions, American women smoke only cigarettes while men can be subclassified into several ontegories: cigarettes only; pipes only; cigars cigarettes and pipes; oigarettes and cigars; pipes and vigars; and all only; three (cigarettes, pipes, and cigars). Men and women who smoke only oigarettes, while comparable in form of tobacco. use, differ in amount smoked. This is illustrated in table 1 which. is confined to subjects currently smoking cigarettes at the time they enrolled in the study (the men representing persons with al lifetime historyofonly cigarette: smoking). Men, as a.group, smoked more cigarettes per. day than women, inhaled tbe smoke to a greater degree, and starled smoking cigarettes earlier in life. Evon men and women who use the same number of cigarettes a day ITEs study was mado pesetble by the cooporation af tbe subjeets, of volunteer tba Amertcau workers Cancor oft the Bodety, Anerioun Ine., Cancer Stato Soclety, Int., staft members of: 20: Divislons and eertificates, maay eounty and upits many phsaidans who fornished laformstion 00 digoosisofemuas heslth departments of supplytng desth. Lawrenoe caples at.death Gurlakel waa ofs grest asaistancs ln annlyalng cbe dota. Jotu Irwin, with ths aistsnce of Hanty Vasques, earrled eut tha computer work. Alan snd Fom supervlsed tbe codling otçusstion- nalresand follow-upreeards. HerbertJahnsone coded denth certideatoe carrled outmany efthe competations. providing additional details. - not are comparable of current amount cigaretto in their smoking habits. Within each of 4 levels of smoking day (1-9, 10-10, 20-39, and per 127 