Reprinted from Excerpta. Medica International Congress Series No. 163 INFLAMMATION AETIOPATHOGENETIC, CLINICAL. AND THERAPEUTIC PROBLEMS Frocecdings of an. International Symposium Bologna, Norember: 7-8; 1967 THE EFFECT OF OXOLAMINE CITRATE ONI ENPERIMENTALLY PRODUCED INFLAMMATION AND COUGH SVEN! ERIK DAHLGREN and. TORE DALHAMN Department of Pathology, Karolinska Sjukhuset and Institute of Hygiene, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden The anti-inflammatory and anti-tussive action of oxolamine citrate was demonstrated in animal experiments, by Silvestrini and Pozzatti (1961) and clinically by Corbella (1960), Deidda (1960) and Tropia (1961), among others. Using guinea pigs wC have studied the effect of oxolamine citrate on inflammatory diseases of the respiratory tract and its anti-tussive eflect. Inflammatory changes were produced by exposure to acrolein aeroso! and coughing by exposure to ammonia aerosol. MATERIAL AND METHODS The anti-inflammatory studies were repeated on two series of twenty animals each. Each series. was subdivided into: four groups of five guinea pigs (A, B, C, and D). The group A animals were used as a check on the general condition. of the guinea pigs and received no treatment at all. In the other groups non-bacterial inflammation was producedi in the respiratory tract by inhalation of acrolein according to Winter andi Flataker (1954). The exposure was made fon 10 minutes in a plexiglass cylinder titted witha Parinebulizer (Fig. 1). Immediately after the acrolcin exposure, intraperitoncal injections were given as follows: Group Test solution A no treatment B sodium chloride C oxolamine citrate D phenylbutazone Dose (mg per kg body weight) 1.5 80.0 30.0 The doses are based' on the recommendations for therapeutic dosage. The injeetions were: repeated in groups B, C and D eleven times during the following 76 hours. The repeated doses per kilogram body weight were 53.3 mg. oxolamine citrate, 20 mg phenylbutazone and 1 mg. sodium chloride. The experiments were stopped after 80 hours. Piloti stadies hadi shown that at this time inflammatory changes werc at their peak. Thirteen animals died during the experiment and were examinedi immediately after death. The other animals were killed and immediately autopsied. The lungs were 47 