- - Sur TIuland 8251 DUPLICATE 107 COMPARATIVE CARCINOGENICITY FOR MOUSE-SKIN OF SMOKE CONDENSATES PREPARED FROM CIGARETTES MADE FROM TIE SAME TOBACCO CURED BY TWO PROCESSES F.J. C. ROE, J. C. CLACK, D. BISHOP AND R. PETO From the Chester Beally Rescarch Inalitule: Institule of Cancer Rescarch, Fulham Road, London, S.W.3, and the MI.R.C. Statiatical Rescarch Cnit, Unirersity College Hospital Medical School, 115 Gorer Streel, London, W.C.I SUMMARY-Bright tobacco grown in Mexico was either fue-cured and redried (FC) or air-cured and bulk-fermented (AC). Both FC and AC were made into clgarettes standardized for draw resistance. FC and AC cigarettes were smoked under similar conditions in a smoking machine (one 2-second 25 ml. puff minute down to a 20 mm. butt length). Condensates were kept at Three groups of 400 female Swiss mice were treated as follows: Group 1- thrice weekly application of 60 mg. FG: In 0:25 ml. acetone to the clipped dorsal skin: Group 2- - similar treatment with AC; Group 3-thrice weekly application Chemical analysis of the 2 tobaccos and 2 condensates revealed only small differences in composition and it is noteworthy thatthe concentration ofreducing sugars was almost as igh as in the AC tobacco as in the FC tobacco. The risk of development of skin tumours, particularly malignant skin tumours, was higher in FC-treated mice than in AC-treated mice (P < 0-01), but the difference may have been due to the use of equal weights of condensates rather than the use of extracts from equal numbers of cigarettes, since the AC cigarettes. produced more condensate. The rates of detection of puimonary tumours also varied bejween groups (P < 0-01) but this does not necessarily Imply that the incidencé rates of pulmonary tumours varied. There was no evidence tiat the detection or incidence rates of any other neoplasms, including malignant lymphomn, were affected by treatment with cither ofthe condensates. Ix. n privately circulated paper Dr. Jan Beffinger writing from "Tobacco Smoking Research, P.O. Box 5240,Nairobi, Kenya ", in June, 11160; attributed the. rise in lmg cancer to the introduction of the procese of reduying flue- curedi tolacru which led lo pnstenrization of the leaf thereby destroying the natural enzymie fermentation. Ou the initintive of Dr. G. F. Marrian, a l'ianning Committer, compred ofi interested independent seiontista and of nominated representatives of the Tobneco Manufaeturers' Stunding Committce (T.M.S.C.), was extablished in Janunry, 1962, to investignte Beffinger's suggestion. After some discussion A decision was annde to test not only the effocts of redrying on carcinogenirity of condensates but also, in the samc experiment, differences introduced by air-curing AS opposed to flue-curing. The moati relevant laboratory test avnilable for the study was measurement of skin tumour induction by the repented applicntion of emoko condonantes to mounc-skin. Using this method, we compared the effecta Rrenived for publication December 10, 1000 0-4" ceur until applied to the skin of mice. of0-25 ml. acetone. only. 