Beitrige zur Tabakforschung - Band 3 Heft 41 Oktober 1965 FIGU Fractic Alique Colur EC det Analysis of Polycyclic Hydrocarbons* by E. W. Robb, G. C. Cuvernator, HII., M. D. Edmonds, and A. Bauley Philip Morris Inc., Richmond, Va., USA FIGI Fraci Aliqui Colur EC d: Because of the emphasis which the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in cigarette smoke have received, a means of monitoring their presence in smoke is desirable. We wish to present the preliminary results of a gas-chromatographic investigation of the polycyclic hydrocarbon fraction of cigarette smoke as. well as an improved spectrofluorometric procedure for the determination of There has been little application of the technique of gas chromatography to the pounds of cigarette smoke. The use of conventional detectors, such as thermal polycyclic Aame ionization devices, has not been fruitful, since the polycyclic aromatic conductivity or the hydrocarbon fraction of smoke in minute concentrations In this respect, the use of the electron capture detector appeared promising. In this device, the electrons emitted from a tritium source are collected and the resulting current is amplified. When a substance capable of capturing eleetrons Aows through the device, the signal is diminished and the peak is recorded. This detector is extremely sensitive to the higher polycyclic aromatics and relatively insensitive to more saturated substances which might be present in the polycyclic fraction The gas-dhromatographic conditions used are presented in Table 1. Good separation. of known polycyclics was obtained with a. silicone rubber phase. As little as .01 microgram of and corresponding amounts of other polycyclics could be detected. The detector benze(a)pyrene linear function of concentration for amounts less than one microgram, No information was obtained from chromatograms of unfractioned cigarette smoke due to "Aood- ing" of the detector by excessive quantities of interfering substances. However, a simple fraction- ation yielded samples which gave well resolved gas chromatograms. The particulate phase of smoke benzo(a)pyrene in smoke. com- compounds occur in substances of closely similar accompanied by larger amounts of chromatographic properties. of sinoke (1). RIG Froci Aliqu Cele EC response was 4 making. quantitative mea- surements: possible. Instrument: Detector: Column: Detector voltage: 40V.D.C. Carrier gas: 278 Wilkens Aerograph Hy- Fi 600-B. Electron capture 15-foot, 15 %: SE-30 silicone on ABS anokrom Nitrogen TABLE E Column temperature: Isothermal operation ot 160°, 2009,250, 280° C Gorchromatogrophic procodure for polycyclics in smoke Prescased t0 the ith Geseral Aucmbly of the CORESTA, Vierna, Ocober 1964 