A PART II. CHEMICAL CARCINOGENESIS o - CARCINOGENIC EPOXIDES, LACTONES, AND HALO-ETHERS AND THEIR MODE OF ACTION* B. L. Van Duuren Laboratory of Organic Chemistry and Carcinogenesis Institute of Environmental Medicine New York University Medical Center New York, N. Y. INTRODUCTION Alkylating agents are being introduced into our environment with increasing frequency. Some of them are used in chemotherapy: others are used as industrial intermediates in organic synthesis, as organic solvents for various chemical processcs, as cross-linking agents in manufacturing processes, and as anti- bacterial and fungistatic agents. Coupled with this increase in possible environ- mental or occupational exposure is the occurrence of alkylating agents as plant natural products, some aspects of which are discussed in other sections of this monograph. The known biological properties of these compounds -i.e., their mutagenic, carcinogenic, and cytotoxic properties - have, therefore, received increasing attention. Biochemical studies have focused on their possible modes of interaction with tissue constituents: proteins, purines, pyrmidines, nucleic acids, et cetera. In addition, organic chemists have studied the reactivity of these Alkylating agents cover a broad range of chemical compounds, and the present report will be concerned mainly with those types that have been investigated in this laboratory; the carcinogenicity, structure-activity relationships, and mode of action of these compounds have been the main concern in our work. The compound types that were explored are epoxides (mono-, di-, andi polyfunctional), This report will be concerned only with selected aspects of this subject. The compounds of interest, their carcinogenicity or lack thereof. and various routes of administration used in mice andi rats are listed in TABLE 1. The structures for these compounds are shown in FIGURES 1,2, and 3. The compounds were usually tested at highest tolerable doses for the lifespans of the animals. Thirty to fifty animals were usually included per group; in the gastric feeding experiments, smaller groups were used; this is discussed below. The details of these experi- It is clear from TABLE 1 that compounds that were active or inactive when applied on mouse skin showed, with one exception, the samc activity or were "Supported by grant CA 08944 (Mode of Action of Alkylating Epoxides and Lactones) and contract PH43-66-962 (Carcinogenicity of Halo-ethers). from the National Cancer compounds with a variety of nucleophilic agents. B- and y-lactones, and halo-ethers."- ments have appeared in our earlier reports.'-4 Institute, and ES-00260 from the Bureau of State Services. 633 