2 C79 9228 8 Tobacco Specific N-Nitrosamines: Occurrence, Carcinogenicity, and Metabolism and. DIETRICH HOFFMANN Valhalla, NY 10595 STEPHEN S. HECICT, CIII-IIONG B. CHEN, C.. DAVID McCOY, Naylor Dana Institute for Disease Prevention, American Health Foundation, It is now widely accepted that cigarette smoking causes lung cancer. (1,2). It is less widely known that smoking is also cor- related with an increased incidence of cancer of the oral cavity, esophagus, pancreas and bladder 12,3,4,5,6). Tobacco chewing can also cause oral cavity and esophageal cancer (3,4,2). In fact, oral cavity cancer. is a major cancer among pen in India, where the habit of chewing the betel quid containing tobacco is widespread (8). Cigarette smoke is known to contain tunor initiators such as the polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons, and tumor promoters and cocarcinogens, such as catechol (9). These agents can explain many of the observed effects of cigarette smoke condensates in experimental animals and almost certainly are involved in some of the human cancers associated with smoking. However, nitrosamines may also be causative factors in the tobacco related cancers, especially in those organs which are remote from direct contact with tobacco or tobacco smoke. Thus it is known that nitrosamines can cause esophageal, pancreas and bladder cancer in experimental animals, as well as affecting the lung and oral cavity (10.11.12). Since tobacco and tobacco smoke have specific carcinogenic effects in man, it is tempting to speculate that there may be unique: carcinogenic agents in tobacco and tobacco smoke. The tobacco spocific nitrosamines are such a group. These nitros- amines: are derived from the tobacco alkaloids (see Figure 1). The most prevalent alkaloidi is nicotine, which occurs in general in concentrations of. 1-28 in comercial tobacco products. Both nico- tine and nornicotine could give rise to the prototype of tobacco specific nitrosamines, W'-nitrosomornicotine (NNN). Nicotine: could also be nitrosated. to form 4-(N-methyl-N-nitrosamino)-1- -pridyl-1-butanone (NNK) or 4-(N-methyl-N-nitrosamino)-4- (3-pyridyljbutanal (ENA).. In addition, W-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPy) could also be derived. from nicotine: and nornicotine. Nitrosation of anabasine would give nitrosoanabasine (NAB). The structures of these nitrosamines, which will be considered in this review, aro shown in Pigure 2. Of course, inspection ot Figure 1 reveals other interesting possibilities tor nitrosation of the tobacco 3 