e IARC Leci fukk.No.19, FLORAN PERINI w.Fiddler efel., 33-717478 M. OBSERVATIONS ON THE USE OF THE THERMAL ENERGY ANALYZER AS A SPECIFIC DETECTOR FOR NITROSAMINES TEA  W.FIDDLER, R.C. DOERR & E.G. PIOTROWSKI Eastern Regional Research Center, Agriculturaz Research Service, US Department of Agricultune, Philadelphia, Pa., USA The use of the Thermal Energy Analyzer (TEA) is becoming more wide- spread for the analysis of nitrosamines (NAs). Originally the TEA was available as a gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) detector (Fine & Rounbehler, 1975a), but it has recently been interfaced with a high- performance liquid chromatograph (HPLC) (Fine et al., 1976a). Based on TEA detection and mass spectrometric (MS) confirmation, NAs have been found in air (Fine et al., 1976b,c), water (Fine et al., 1976d), cutting oils (Fan et al., 1977), pesticides (Fan et al., 1976), and corrosion- inhibiting formulations (Archer & Wishnok, 1976). These findings have stimulated considerable interest, since they suggest that the presence of nitrite, either alone or produced from nitrate, with a nitrosatable amine will produce NAs in the environment, even under There is no question that the TEA is more highly specific for NAs than GLC detectors, such as thermionic or alkali flame ionization, Coulson and electron-capture, since it measures the liberated nitric oxide radical. We are concerned about reports based on NA data obtained by TEA alone without mass spectral confirmation, particularly since Fine et al. (1975b) have determined that a number of non-NAs or impurities in the sample give a TEA response These include organic nitrites, C-nitro and C-nitroso compounds. In our own work on the determination of volatile NAs in cured meats, we have noted a number of CLC-TEA peaks that elute prior to nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), in confirmation of the report by Stephany & Schuller (1976). In addition, we have encountered samples giving peaks that eluted after NDMA, but which did not correspond exactly to the retention time of any mild conditions. of fourteen, known, volatile NAs. -33- 