9108 CULN Nitrosamines as Environmental Carcinogens A Review of the Chemical and Biological Aspects Dfurtwant of Orgni Canisi, U'ninrsity of P'reloria, Pretoria, Sonth.  Irie N-nitrosmines have Ixen known to organic chemists for over 50 years as yelloy oils which urc formed when nitrous acid (or' a mixture of nitrugen oxides) reacts with sccond.iry amines in acid medium. W. J. Scrfontein and P. Hurter R R, R N-NII, R Hydrazines - -H + JONO H+ R' (ur NO + NO) R' Sccundary Nitrites wr aminc nittuus gases - NO Reductions N-nitrus- anine This rcuction was uscd occasion.illy as a tesl for sccondary amines and .for the preparation of hydrazines; otherwise it was of no particular interest The N-nitrosamnines wCIC gradually introduced into the chemical industry at a later stage, without their pussible danger (o health cver having buen scriously considered. Knowledge of thèse compoands was therefore rather poor when Mage c and Barnes' first investigated their toxic ellects in workers who had handled large quantitics of industrial nitrosumines. They discoveral that dimethylnitrosanine nor only caused liver cirrhosis in experimental animals, but also that on prolonged oral administration it is a potent liver carcinogen, causing centrilobular necrosis followed by primary malignant tumours of the liver in rats." Since then, significant advances have been made towards a better understanding of the mechanism of action of this important new group of carcinogens. Up to the prescnt no comprchensive survey of this subjecr has appeared. A revicw of the main chemical and hiological aspecis of nitrosaminc carcinogenesis therefore scenis appropriate. Nitenamines muy lx expacre m excur in tather low concentrativa in natural pr ducts. In vicw uf thcir clamical propertita Gile infr). concentration prxelurcs fir nittmaminn in natutal surees are lil.cly lo le dificult. Morcuver, oller quantitatinc nuthuahs fut sitrunrtunes nerc fod €o b quite unsuital.le for the analysis of cuanplex biolgical nisictes! Reently. Serlontein and Iluner,"." worling: eM the nitrinamine content u tha lar, di-onered thut prior scluction lo the asynnsttic hy.ltarints enalde tle sitteranines tu be xparatul cfletisely frutn cunpha orpani Analytical Chemistry of Nitiosamines 62 Vol. 10: Ne, 2: ApilJnsi 19(5 01065433 1 