REPRINT NOV 1 5 1979 FLORIAN tytochemiury a Pergamon Press Lid. Printed in England 9279 PERINI THE ISOLATION OF HARMANE AND NORHARMANE FROM TOBACCOAND CIGARETTE SMOKE E.. H. POINDEXTER, JR. and R. D. CARPENTER Philip Morris Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A. thhp - : i TAATY (Received 18 May 1962) Abstract- Harmane and norharmane were isolated from cured tobacco and its smoke. This establishes the presence of indole alkaloids in tobacco. Quantitative studies showed that cigarette smoke contained between 15 andi 20 pg of combined harmane and norharmane per gram of tobacco smoked. The tobacco itself contained only about I per cent of the amount found in smoke. Thus, the pyrolytic formation oft the liarmane alkaloids was strongly indicated. The addition of radioactive tryptophan to the tobacco resulted in the isola- tion of radioactive harmane alkaloids in the smoke. Further studies indicated that enough tryptophan was present in the tobacco to account for the quantities of the harmane alkaloids found in the smoke. DURING a study of the basic fraction of cigarette smoke (Fig. 4) twoestrongly fluorescent compounds were observed on paper chromatograms. These were subsequently identified as harmane (I) and norharmane (II) by ultraviolet and infrared spectrophotometry. No reference to these compounds was found in recent revicws of tobacco chemistry.1a The isolation of these alkaloids was achieved by the acidic extraction of smoke, followed by cellulose column chromatography of the free bases and subsequent resolution by paper chromatography. The isolated compounds gave identical ultraviolet, infrared, and fluor- escence spectra with those given by authentic harmane and norharmane. INTRODUCTION RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The alkaline fraction of smoke contained considerable blue fluorescent material, most of which remained in the steam pot during steam distillation. Examination of this pot residue in numerous paper chromatographic systems showed that 15% wt./vol. aqucous NaCI gave good separation ofthe slow moving fluorescent material from the faster running colored pigments and the nicotine alkaloids. The non-stcam-volatile basic fraction was therefore separated on a cellulose column using 15% NaCI to elute most of the latter more mobile compounds; the blue fluorescent material was then readily cluted from the column with methanol. A Kethamylalcohol-acetate buffer system resolved the luorescent fraction into several zones, two of which were intensely blue in fluorescence. The elution andi rechromatography of the two bluc zones resulted in chromatographically pure alkaloids The R, values of the zones isolated from smoke were shown to agrec with those of the known reference compounds, harmane and norharmane, in several solvent systems as shown in Table I. The infrared spectra of the compounds isolated from smoke were determined and shown to agree very closely to the spectra of authentic reference alkaloids, harmanc and norharmane (Fig. 1). The ultraviolet spectra in both 0-1 NI HCI and diethyl R.A. W.JoHNsroNF.and J. R. PLIMMER, Chem. Rev. 59, RNS (1959). 'H. R. BENTLEY and E. G. N. BLRRY, The Constituents of Tohareu Smoke: An Annotated Bibliography. (Rescarch Paper No. 3.) The Tobacco Manufacturers Standing Committce (1959). for analysis. 215 