Butrage zur Tabakforschung : Band 4 Heft 1 August 1967 Examination of Aflatoxin Ei in Leaf robacco and in Cigarette Smoke Condensate* by T. C. Tso and T. Sorokin Beltsville, Maryland, usA Crops Research Division, Agricultural Research Service, u.S. Department of Agriculture, E Aflatoxin Bi, the most toxic of the four known aflatoxins, is produced by Aspergillus flavus. The binding of aflatoxin Bi to both native and denatured DNA (deoxyribose nucleic acid) partially explains its extreme toxicity and carcinogenicity (1). Aflatoxins have been reported to occur in many commor (2), but its presence in leaf tobacco was never positively confirmed, although The amount of certain phenolic compounds in tobacco, especially scopoletin (6-methoxy-7-hydroxy coumarin), was found to be associated with the levels of phenylalanine and tyrosine present (4). These two amino acids are also reported to be incorporated into aflatoxins B and G produced by A. flavus in a defined medium (5). These results suggest. that the coumarin nucleus of scopoletin Certain types of tobacco contain higher populations of fungi than other types (6). These differences probably are the result of culture, curing, and handling practices as well as chemical composition of tobacco leaf. Seven samples of good-grade cured tobacco from flue-cured, Burley, and Maryland types, and four samples of moldy tobaccos from fue-cured type, were used for aflatoxin studies following methods described by Pons et al. (7), with minor modifications. n-Hexane was used to wash the(column)before eluting with chloroform. The thickness of the thin layer chromatogram was reduced to 250 microns. This method was designed specially for dete:mination of aflatoxins, and not for scopoletin which is not the main object of this present study. Most of the scopoletin came off the column when it was washed with n-hexane. The chloroform fraction contains all aflatoxins and the remaining portion of scopoletin. Aflatoxin Bi has a Rf value very close to scopoletin in several of the solvent systems tested. Using silica gel H. thin layer chromatograms, the Rf values of aflatoxin Bi and scopoletin are, respectively, 0.55 and 0.45, with a solvent system containing 3 %o MeOH in chloroform; and 0.66 and 0.56 when 5% MeOH was used. The identity Results in Table 1 show the absence of aflatoxin Br in these good andi moldy tobacco samples tested within the sensitivity of the present method, which is 0.3 parts per billion (7). These fin- dings are froin two determinations of normal tobacco and three determinations of molded tobacco samples. The results, however, should not be interpreted to indicate that aflatoxins or other myco- toxins are absolutely free from all leaf tobaccos. A better understanding of the environmental conditions for growth of microorganisms in tobacco, and more specified techniques for chemical A. flavus was found in various grades of air-cured Burley tobacco (3). and aflatoxin may be derived from the same biosynthetic pathways. S10, of aflatoxin Bi was further confirmed by another method (8). detection of individual mycotoxins in tobacco are needed. Received for publication: 2nd May, 1967. 18 : . 