RLFRINT : : 10 British Journal 75 (190181-28. XX7- HMCXIMAUSENARISO.UA 01980B British Myahsra7 of Addiction to Alcohol and other Drugs. 9905 Consumption of Cigarettes of Reduced Tar and Nicotine Delivery R. Stepney, M.A.(Oxon), M.Sc. Research Psychologist, Universily of Cambridge Clinical School, Department of Medicine, Level 5, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 200 Summary The results of 16 published experiments uhich have investigated the effect of reduced lar and nicotine delivery on cigarelte consumplion icere analysed. Smokers suitched ta brands of lower delivery were found to have significantly incrrased consumption, the greatest increases in consumplion occurring after the largest reductions in delitery. A linear regression of the dula showr the consumptton increase predicted for different levels of delivery reduction. The relevance of this data to changes in cigaretle consumption taking place in the general smoking population is discussed. Introduction The past 40 years have scen a clear and continuing reduction in the standard' tar and nicotine deliveries of cigarcites (i.c. the deliverics obtained when cigaret- tes arc machine-snuked to standard specifications of pulf Irequency, duration and volume [1,2). In the main, this has resulted froi the almost complete abandon- ment of plain cigarettes in favour of those with filters (filter cigarette sales as a percentage of the total U.K. markct have increased from 2 per cent in 1955 to 90 per cent in 1977).* although reductions in delivery have also been obtained by increasing the cfliciency of lilters, by tobacco blending and by sinoke dilution The switch to lower-delivery cigarcttes has been cncouraged in an attempt to reduce the health risks of smoking (especially those related to tar intake) in smokers unable or unwilling to abstain completcly (3, 4). Although the delivery of tar contributes to the sensory aspects of smoking, it is probably not ofimportance in maintaining the habit. However, perhaps unfortunately, the delivery of tar is very closely correlated with that of nicotine (5] which almost certainly docs play a central role in smoking motivation (6, 7), cither as the agentofaddiction or as the mediator of desired psychological elfects such as the control of arousal and the enhancement of performance [8, 9). Both the 'addiction and the psychological tool' models therefore suggest that the nicotine intake from smoking must remain at or above the level necessary to have the desired pharmacological cllects ifiti is Smokers dissatislicd with cigarettes of lower standard nicotine delivery arc able to compensate by increasing the 'elliciency' withi which they extract nicotine from the lower-delivery cigarettes (i.c. by taking more and longer pulls and (through ventilation of the cigarette). to continue to satisfy the smoker. Source is Lee (1) and supplements. 