- COXICOLOGY AND APPLIED PIARMACOLOCY 6, 103-111 (1964) Studies on the Effect of Irritant Vapors on Ciliary Mucus Transport I. Phenol and Cigarette Smoke! P. BERNFELD, C. W. NIXON, AND F. HOMBURGER Bio-Researck Consultants, Inc., Cambridge, Massackusetts Received April, 1963 The property of tobacco smoke to slow down mucus transport on ciliated epithelium has recently received increased attention. This has been prompted by the suggestion that the cilia-inhibitory action of smoke may delay elimination of smoke particles from the bronchial tree and may, thus, further the resorption of material from the smoke. On the other hand, Hoffmann and Wynder (1963) have presented evidence Falk et al. (1959), who found no response of epithelium upon exposure to vapors pure phenol. be explained, and which may be helpful in evaluating and understanding filtration of from tobacco smoke resulted in a reduction of the seemed to be in contradiction with data by that selective phenols cilia-inhibiting effect. This observation of The present work provides data on the basis of which this seeming dis- crepancy may effects of tobacco smoke and of its components. In addition, a simple reproducible been and other materials on frog cilia has herein. This greatly improved method may be helpful to other the biological related fields. commercial ately before the experiment, structures were carefully dissected, split onto the paraffin-covered such and 22 mm in depth. Two was washed NaHCOs 0.04 g; NaH,PO., Measuring to smoke, to phenol, The plastic dish containing and method for the study of the effects of smoke for this work and is described workers in this and developed METHODS preparation. Leopard frogs (Rana pipiens) were obtained from a Frog esophagus supplier? and kept in glass containers on moist sphagnum moss. Immedi- they were pithed, and the esophagus and adjoining longitudinally and pinned, ciliated side up, floor of a circular plastic dish measuring 65 mm in diameter were placed side by side in each dish, preparations the simultaneous study. Prior to exposure to the test substance, preparation permitting with frog Ringer's solution (NaCI, 1.30 g: KCI, 0.028 g; CaClz, 0.024 g; the rate of ciliary mucus transport. Before exposure of the preparation or to air as a control, the initial mucus flow rate was determined: the preparations was filled with frog Ringer's solution 0.002 g; glucose, 0.4 g; H,0, 200 ml). disodium salt, 4H,0 (ATP), containing 0.00625% yeast adenosine 5'-triphosphate, unless stated otherwise, in such a way as to cover the preparation 1 Supported by P. Lorillard Co.. New York, New York. : J. M. Hazen and Co., Alburg, Vermont. to a of depth 103 01131151 