Reprinted from the Archives of Internal Medicine June 1949, Vol. 83, PP. 620-631 Copyright, 1949, by American Medica! Association - - shn - RADIOACTIVE JSOTOPES IN THE STUDY OF PERIPHERAL II. Method of Evaluation of Various Forms of Treatment VASCULAR DISEASE FENTON SCHAFFNER, M.D. MORRIS T. FRIEDELL, M.D. WILLIAM J. PICKETT, M.D. AND IRVIN F. HUMMON Jr., M.D. CHICAGO E VALUATION of the peripheral circulation can be accomplished with the use of radioactive isotopes." Determination of a circula- tory index depends on the rate of deposition of radioactive phosphorus (p* as a phosphate ion, in either phosphoric acid (H,PO,] or sodium phosphate [Na,HPO,]) in the tissues of an extremity; the index is then derived from a semilogarithmic plotting of the minute by minute increase in radioactivity in a selected site in the extremity (usually the sole of the foot). For statistical purposes, the reciprocal of the rate of deposition is used to calculate this index, according to the equations Index = log 20- - log2 and Ca-C, Index = 1 Cx-C where Czo is the theoretic number of counts at the end of twenty minutes and C, is the theoretic number of counts at the end of two minutes. In a series of normal persons, the mean rate of deposition of radio- active phosphorus in the tissues was actually less than in a group of patients with arteriosclerosis. Expressed by means of the index, which is a reciprocal function of the rate of deposition, the rate is higher for normal persons than for those with arteriosclerosis. The average index for the normal person is 0.160; for the person with arteriosclerosis From the Hektoen Institute for Medical Research, Cook County Hospital, This work was supported by a grant from the Biochemical Division, Interchemical Corporation, Union, N. J., which also supplied the histidine 1. Friedell, M. T.; Schaffner, F.; Pickett, W., and Hummon, I. F., Jr.: Radio- active Isotopes in the Study of Peripheral Vascular Disease I. Derivation of a and the Peripheral Vascular Clinic, Mercy Hospital. monohydrochloride used. Circulatory Index, Arch. Int. Med., this issue. p. 608. 01151026 