a vover smoking aximum iumber of ids. We 1.0% and hin 0.02 22. The effect of different cigarettes on human smoking patterns D E CREIGHTON AND P H1 LEWIS / smokers. n magnetic y ofthe y be made a puff noker, r. nalysis. 20th : regime and ch Conference. igarette. se de l'acte neeting ber 26-27 1972. ons of itrage zur ). Introduction In most parts of the world the design of cigarettes is being modified and the deliveries of tar (or TPM) and nicotine, as determined by machine smoking, have been declining. TPM is the total particulate matter trapped on a Cambridge filter andi is determined by direct weighing. Tar usually refers to the total particulate matter less the weights of nicotine and water. Although this trendi has been particularly noticeable in recent years with the introduction of'league' tables of cigarettes ranked by deliver- ies, the reduction in deliveries has been going on for some time; c.g. in a survey of U.K. smoking patterns records, the 1973 deliveries of nicotine. and tar were 47% and 57% respectively of the deliveries obtained in 1935 (Todd, 1975). It is often assumed by smokers and implied by others that it is preferable to change to a brand which offers lower deliveries of tar and nicotine, and to an increasing extent such advice is becoming more explicit, e.g. 'Smoke a brand of cigarettes in a lower 'tar' group than the brand you smoke at present and aim progressively to reduce still further' (D.H.S.S., 1976). However, there is a considerable body of evidence (Ashton and Watson, 1970; Frith, 1971; Adams, 1976; Gritz, Baer-Weiss and Jarvik, 1976) that shows that smokers alter their smoking patterns when they change to a brand of cigarettes with different delivery characteristics. Ifa smoker of relatively high delivery cigarettes changes to a brand with substantially lower deliveries, he may actually increase his intake of tar and carbon monoxide in his attempts to compensate for the reduced delivery of nicotine (Russell, 1974). Compensation is a subconscious control of the intake of one or more smoke com- ponents by a change in the smoking pattern sO that similar intakes are achieved from cigarettes with dissimilar machine smoked deliveries. Much of the evidence for compensation has been obtained under laboratory conditions and has involved comparisons of single cigarette smoking measurements. It is, however, possible that a smoker can change his behaviour with time and become accustomed to a brand offering higher or lower deliveries, especially if It was therefore decided to carry out an experiment in which the cigarettes of interest would be smoked ad libitum for a reasonably long period of time, smoking behaviour being measured, in the laboratory, on a number of occasions throughout this period. A panel of smokers of a medium delivery cigarette (about 1.4 mg nicotine) would be monitored for a period of about one month and then asked to he smokes the 'new' brand exclusively. 289 