( J Chron Dis 1974, Vol. 27, pp. 459-474. Pergamon Press. Printed in Great Britain RELATION OF PLACE OF BIRTH AND MIGRATION IN CANCER MORTALITY IN THE U.S. A STUDY OF OHIO RESIDENTS (1959-1967) THOMAS F. MANCUSO Rescarch Professor, Department of Occupational Health, Graduate School of Public Hcalth, University of Pittsburgh, 130 De Soto Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15261 and THEODOR D. STERLING Burnaby 2, British Columbia, Canada (Received 28 February 1974) INTRODUCTION Professor, Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, Simon Fraser University, EPIDEMIOLOGICAL studies have demonstrated marked differences in geographic regions and ethnic groups for cancer of specific organs (1-10). This broad approach of descriptive epidemiology has focused on the major scientific unknowns:host response, susceptibility, resistance and adaptability, the influence of the enviroament. and the interrelationships of the host with the environment. The mortality studies conducted of Ohio residents exploring demographic, nativity, migration, and industrialvariables, arc directed toward the continued explorations of these major questions ID one state Migrant studies between countries have invariably indicated the. importance of endemic factors in the early years oflife in the subsequent development of relative risk to specific forms ofcancer. Steiner, Haenszel and others have emphasized the research potential in studying these unique unplanned human experiments' of migrant We have focused on migration within the U.S. utilizing Ohio residents born in Ohio and born elsewhere as the population base. In our first migrant study (1958-1963)it was noted that the Ohio nonwhite born in the South had a much higher age adjusted rate (25-64) for the cancer sites studied compared to the nonwhite born in Ohio. For the males, the excess was noted for cancer of the lung, stomach and pancreas, and for In the second study the mortality time period was extended (1959-1967) and a separate analysis was made of lung cancer among the nonwhite and white with a further examination of the intcraction between environmental and host factors. The within the constraints of the resource data available [11-17). populations (7, 18). the females, cancer of the cervix and breast (19). 459 