338 Tte CTK L MCLAUGIEN Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, 613(1978)338-357 o Elevier/North-hilland Biomedical Press BBA 78175 THE ADSORPTION OF DIVALENT CATIONS TO PHOSPHATIDYLCHOLINE BILAYER MEMBRANES ALAN MCLAUGHLIN  CHRISTOPH GRATHWOHL' b and STUART MCLAUGHLINE a Biology Depertment, Brookhaven National Oxford (U.K.). and < Department of b Biochemistry Department, Health Oxford Science University, Center, SUNY, Stony Brook, N.Y.11794 Laboratory, Upton, N. Y. 11973 (U.S.A.) Physiology and Biophysics, (U.S.A.) (Received March 28th, 1978) Summary Electrophoretic mobility and "P NMR measurements were combined to test whether the combination of the Henry, Boltzmann and Grahame equations is capable of describing the adsorption of divalent cations to phosphatidyicholine membranes. Cobalt was chosen for this study because, of ali the common diva- lent cations, its effects on the "P NMR spectrum of phosphatidylcholine mem- branes are easiest to interpret. Both the "P NMR data on the adsorption of cobalt and the zeta potential data calculated from the electrophoretic mobility in the presence of cobalt are well described by the combination of these three Electrophoretic mobility measurements were also performed with a equations. number of other divalent cations and the zeta potentials were, in all cases, well described by the combination of these threc equations. The binding deduced from such measurements decreases in the sequence: Mn", Mg", ,Ca" Co" Ni", Sr", Ba*. If we assume that a lipid molecule occupies an area of 60 A and that there is a 1:1 stoichiometry for the binding of the divalent ions to phosphat dylcholine, the dissociation constants are, respectively: 0.3, 1.0, 1.0, 1.2,1.2. 2.:, 3.6 M. Introduction Divalent cations affect biological membranes in many ways. Although a number of these effects probably arise from specific binding to membrane pro- teins, some of the effects may arise from a more general interaction with the membrane surlace. Calcium, for example, has long been known to 'stabilize' the electrically excitable membranes of nerve and muscle; in the presence of an increased concentration of calcium in the extracellular fluid the membrane 