2 CAUA201S Enzymatic oxidation of alpha-l-proteinase inhibitor in abnormal tissue turnover N. R. Matheson. A. Janoff. & J. Travis Dept. of Biochemistry. Universitr of Georgia. Athens, GA 30602 and 'Depr. of Pathologr. State Uniersily of New York at Stonr Bruok, Stony Brook. New York. U.S.A. Summary The development of pulmonary emphysema and rheumatoid arthritis is currently believed to be due to uncontrolled proteolysis by elastolytic enzymes, asa result ofadeficiency in controliing proteinase inhibitors. This deficiency mayarise from a number of factors, including genetically controlled improper synihesis. turnover by proteolytic enzymes not inactivated by these inhibitors, and oxidative inactivation in the case of Recently, a-1-PI vas found to contain a methionyl residue at its reactive center which was sensitive to oxidation by either N-chlorosuccinimide or by enzymatic oxidation. Chemical oxidation revealed thattwo of the cight methionyl residues present in the molecule were oxidized, one of which was at the reactive center. Subsequently. it was found that the enzymatic oxidation by myeloperoxidase from neutrophil granules, in the presence of hydrogen peroxide and halide ion, could alsol be easily attained. Since mycloperoxidase is present in the same granules which contain proteolytic enzymes it would be expecied that both types of cnzymes would be released simultaneously during either phagocytosis or cell turnover. The myeloperoxidase systemdoes not oxidize or inactivate other proteinase inhibitors or proteinases. with the exception of bovine trypsin, porcine trypsin. and human neutrophil cathepsin G, all of which are Recently, it was shown that when a-1-PI was exposed to viable neutrophils in the presence ol chloride ion and phorbol myristyl acetate, the ability of a-1-PI to bind elastase was diminished. However, when mycloperoxdase-deicient cells or those from patients with chronic granulomatous disease were used. there was no effert on a-1-PI activity. Addition of myeloperoxicase to the deficient cells or a hydrogen peroxide generating system tothe other cells. however, resulted in a-1-PI inactivation. confirming the involvement of Oxidized a-1-PI has been isolated from rheumatoid synovial fuid of arthritic patients and also from lung lavage fluids of smokers. Approximately four methionyl residues were found to be oxidized in cither casc. compared to two oxidized residues when native a-1-PI was treated with either chemical or enzymatically produced oxidants. Theindication is, therefore, that oxidativeinactivation ofa-1-PI does occur in vivo. This result is also substantiated by the recent data which indicate that treatment of monkeys with the oxidizing agent, chloramine-T, resulted in their active a-1-PI levels being reduced to near-zero. Furthermore. long- term treatment of dogs with chloramine-T resulted in the development of emphysematous-likel lesions. The importance of oxidation to emphysema development has been shown with a rat model in which the animals wereexposed to cigarette smoke. It was found that there was a 35% decrease inthe elastase inhibitory capacity of the lung lavage fluids of unadapted animals but no decrease if the rats had previously been rendered tolerant toozone. There was also a50% decrease in active a-1-PI in the lung lavage fuid ofhuman the major plasma inhibitor, a-l-proteinase inhibitor (a-1-PI). inactivated at approximately 5% of the rate for a-1-PI. myeloperoxidase and hydrogen peroxide in a-1-PI inactivation.  chronic smokers teded in the same way. Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry 45,65-71 (19E2). 0X-817/82/052005. SOI 40. e 1982, Martines NijholfDr W. Junk Publishers. The Hague. Printed in The Netherlands. 