RESEARCH DEPARTMENT FILE NOTE June 12, 1969 CHEMICAL EFFECTS ASSOCIATED WITH WATER EQUILIBRATED CARBON FILTERS/323 The inclusion of 25 + 1% water in the carbon of charcoal cigarettes has resulted in improved smoking quality. A study was made to ascertain what chemical effects could be associated with the inclusion of water. The routine method for the multicomponent analysis of the gas phase of smoke was used in the comparative studies (B&W Report 68-15). The additional water in the charcoal filter may impart more water to the smoke, but this effect was not determined in the A quantity of 20 X 50 mesh BPL carbon was dried for 3 hours at 150°c. One- half of the dried carbon was sprayed with water to contain 26% included water. Cigarettes were constructed with the wet carbon on the 323007 cigarette (8 1/2 until the time of smoking; the tobacco sections, however, were conditioned overnight as with the other cigarettes. The 84 mm cigarettes were smoked to a 33 mm butt length on a modified BAT Bellows Smoking Machine, Deliveries and filtration efficiencies are tabulated in Table I. The ratio of wet/dry deliveries by compound type are shown in Table II. present study. CA-8C-8 1/2 CA, CA R room at 60% RH and acetate) and allowed to condition overnight in a The dried carbon was not inserted into the cigarettes 7349740 Discussion 64%. The overall efficiency of the dry carbon, 78% for the compounds listed from propylene through toluene, is reduced by water treatment of the charcoal to The change in smoking quality associated with water treatment does not, how- ever, lie merely in overall efficiency reduction, since lesser amounts of dry carbon still have poor taste. The difference must lie in relative chemical The largest change is the ratio of wet/dry deliveries of saturated and urated hydrocarbons having boiling points ranging between -48°C and 34 which is of the order of 2/1. Hydrocarbons in this boiling range do have character- istic aromas and tastes although these compounds have not usually been considered as contributors to smoking quality. The wet/dry ratios for the other classes of components lie between 1.2 and 1.5. Surprisingly, no differences are observed between rates for the hydrophilic carbonyl compounds and the The above experiment has not thrown much light on how water reduces "charcoal taste." Either greater differences exist for compounds not determined in the GC method or more emphasis should be placed on low molecular weight compositions. AeUnVAics hydrophobic aromatic hydrocarbons. aliphatic hydrocarbons. The latter seems unlikely. 620840103 LwWayy H. W. Maynor HWM/dw KEYWORD INDEX: Carbon, Charcoal, Gas Phase, Smoke Quality, Filtration cc: Dr. P. L. Aulbach Dr.. - E. F. Litzinger Mr. M. L. Reynolds 