Hala - - a 4 LA TTE COUNOIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCII- U.S.A, SUCCESSOR TO THlE TOBACCO INDUSTRY RESEARCH COMMITTEE 633 THIRD AVENUE NEW YORK. N. Y. 10017 October 14, 1964 Dr. T. C. Tso, Plant Physiologist Tobacco Quality Investigations Crops Research Division Agricultural Research Service U, S. Department of Agriculture Beltsville, Maryland Dear Dr. Tso: We have received your letter of Septenber 30, 1954, concerning "Fodcral-State health oriented research programs on tobacco". In particular you raise the question as to what chemical components in tobacco "are considered to be potentially health hazardous and sbould Kentucky conference, that in the present statc of knowledge it is really impossible to compile any such list of "potentially hezardous components' EE of tobacco. The reason, of course, is that the presumed dangers of cigarette smoking are conjectural in nature, being inferred largely from statistical relationships by methods that are still under question and challenge by many of our leading statisticians. There is no disease whose rolationship to cigarette smoking as a significant causal or contributory factor has been convincingly demonstrated by clinical or experimental methods. Still less has any contributory mechanism been traced out in detail or shown to be due to. any specific ingredient of analytical work by way of stock-piling kowlodgc that may eventually become inportant. It must, however, be realized, as someone pointed out in Iicxington, thet such studies can only be based upon "limited working hypotheses" or "specilative presumptions' that nay prove to havc no foundation. As.was said there "opportunities to waste time on futile leads are enormous". Fortunately the by-products of scientific work so often become more important than the original goals that good scientific effort is not likely to be wasted in the long run. On this clearly defined basis we would approve competent efforts to accumulate new knowlodge of the components of the tobacco plant as affected by strain aifference, soil components, weather conditions, genetic fectors, fertilizers, insecticides, plant diseases, curing methods, ageing etc. be studied".  I am sure you realize, particularly after the Lcxington cigarette smoke. This certainly does not mean that it is impossible to do useful 