) Ohlo Tobacco Actlon Netwark Suite 2800 * Leveque Tower 50 West Broad Street - Columbus, Ohlo 43215 Brooke A Choney, State Director - 614461-8931 TEN TAKE ACTIONNOW January 5, 1983 Tobacco Action Network Advisory Committee Memhers We hope your holidays were Gentlemen, and relaxing. Ne are especially sincere in hoping you have joxfth the chance to relar, because it looks as though there will be no time for it during the coming year. But it is worth it because in 1983 Ohio TAN is going to cffense for tobacco. This is what we have all wanted ando it will be nice to stop playing defense all the time. With the new year under way we want to take this opportunity, to update you on these important offensive efforts we are undertaking. As we have discussed, 1983 promises to be one of our sost difficuit and challenging years in regard to anti-tobacco legislation. Thus level. No nention has yct goed made of increasing our already high excise tax, however some consideration has been given to increasing sale taxes on all products. Taxes must be an ongoing concern for us both in this budget period as well as for the one starting this sum- The lobbyists on our committee have been diligently working to meet the many freshmen legislators coming to Columbus. Thus far they have had a good reception. The Denocrats have secured rajority con- trol of the Senate and elected Harry Meshel from Youngstown as pre- sident. Governor-elect Celeste has appointed Dale Locker (cigar tobacco country) as Director of Agriculture. We also anticipate sone favorable. committee appointments in both the House and tie Senate advisors mecting we discussed our major offensive weapon of 1983, the TAN Know Your Legislator Program: The Oh1o Association of Tobacco and. Candy Distributors, Ohio Farm Bureau Federation and Chio Music and Amusement Association have been very supportive in helping us to design the progran and arranging for individuals to host their legislator at their shop or farm. By the end of the first quarter, over fifty targeted state Jegislators will know a great deal more ahout the imor  5 tance of tobacco to their constituents and to the state ecchony, Ry the end of the year, we hope. to have had meetings with every legisla- 1 - tor.: The strategy of this first etfensive more is to prevent legis- on the far, things have been very for us on the state legislative mer: that will help. us in the upcoming battles. So the stage is set, and the next move will . à bé ours! At the last lation through educating the legislator. RECEIVED JAN 11 1983 JKW. A 