APPENDIX C. TELEX TO MR. GEORGE WEISSMAN, PHILIP MORRIS. NEW /ORK. Far Mr. Weissman, F ollowing is text of letter sent to you today by Mr. Sheehy, Chairman afB.A.T Industries:- "Dear Mr. Weissman, Philip Morris Holland. B.V. recently took out ull-page newspaper ads in violation of Dutch law to republish an anti-smoking group's slander of Barclay. Upon demand, your company offered to cease this advertising but declined to publish a retraction, leaving us no recourse except through the courts. The current campaign of the Dutch Anti-smoking group expressly deplores the growth of Light cigarette sales in that country and seeks ways of reversing the trend. They have singled out Barclay merely because it is the latest success. The overall thrust is against all cigarette brands including those of your I Sind it.incomprehensisle that Philip Morris would weigh so heavily the short-term commercial advantage from deprocating a competitor's brand while weighing so lightly the long-term adverse impact from an ongoing anti-eoking"grogramte I believe chis is the first time a Tobacco Manufacturer has purchased space to promulgate the anti-smoking position. In doing so, Philip Morris not only makes a mockery of Industry co-operation on smoking and health issues, but also appears to inaugurate a free- for-all in which illegal conduct is,condoned provided the commercial stakes are high enough. As you may know, there is a proposed law currently awaiting the approval of the Dutch Parliament, which would require all forms of tobacco advertising in Hoiland to have prior Governrent approval. Issues of the nature of our present dispute in Holland can only serve to enhance the chances of Government approval of such a I'am confident that you do not approve of'the questionable tactics behind your Dutch company's advertisement of the 2nd September in the nevspapers "De Telegraaf" and "Algemeen Dagbiad" and will ensure that not only are they not repeated, but that your Dutch Affiliate will unreservedly retract the advertisements. In this connection, I should point out that we are instituting injunction proceedings against your Dutch good Company. 9I law. - Affiliate on Thursday of next week. Very truly yours. 