STATE OF MICHIGAN INSURANCE BUREAU 14 MERPONT Po BCX X LANSNG, MOGAN *n WILLIAM G. VLUKEN, Governor DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE WILLIAM P. MCLAUGHUN, Drector August 26, 1980 Or. Maurice S. Reizen, Director Department of Public Health 3500 N. Logan Lansing, Michigan 48909 Dear Or. Reizen: This letter 1s to assure you that the Insurance Bureau will assist your department in whatever way 1t can to provide information regarding smoking and insurance premfums to the panel studying the problems of smoking and health. I have asked Beverly Wiener of my staff to contact Mr. Fong imediately to see what specific questions he may have. In general terns, I can give you some indfcation of how insurers treat smoking as an element in determining premiums. The factors which may be used for rate classifications in auto and home insurance, including renters insurance, are specifically listed in P.A. 145 of 1979. These classifications which take effect January 1, 1981, include the use of snoking materials within the structure as an allowable rating factor for home insurance. Although the presence of smokers is not a mandatory rating factor, many insurers already offer a non-smoker's discount for home insurance, and at least as nany will continue to do so after January 1. You have probably seen advertising regarding these discounts, as the compantes have run national television ad compaigns marketing The classifications allowed for auto insurance rating do not include use of smoking matertals, and there are presently no insurers in Michigan who charge differential auto rates for smokers and non-smokers. Based on the lack of evidence linking smoking to an increased probability of loss, I would not support amending P.A. 145 of 1979 to mandate smoking A number of 11fe insurers do offer differential prentum structures for smokers and non-smokers. A 11st of insurers which offer non-smoker discounts could probably be compiled by surveying the Tife insurance market, or perhaps obtained from a trade association this feature. P as an auto rating factor at this tire. L Council of Life Insurers. swb,"birte ATECICFHRALTH RECEIVED AUG 2 6 1980 UIRECTOR'S CFFICE -239- L 