The Business Council of New York State - March 1985 Honorable Jerry L. Crispino Chairman, Health Committee Nev York City Council 1067 Allenton Avenue Bronx, New York 10469 Dear Councilman Crispino: a RE: Introduction No. 259 (Michels, Greitzer) It has been brought to our attention that the Heaith Committee of the New York City Council intends to hold a public hearing on March 29, 1985 regarding Introduction Number 259, the restrictive smoking proposal. The Business Council of New York State will be testifying at the hearing, but would like to take this opportunity to express our concern with this legislation. As you may know, The Business Council is a broadbased statewide business association which represents businesses both large and small, upstate and downstate, that are involved in virtually every type of business and industry in New York State. Our membership totals 3,200 companies and includes over 200 local chambers of commerce and regional business associations. The subject legislation would restrict or prohibit smoking in enclosed areas used by the public. These areas would include places of work, offices, meeting rooms, restaurants, hotels, retail stores and others, thus affecting a vast segment of our membership. Smoking areas would be designated by proprieters who must post signs stating as such. Violators would be punished by a civil fine for not less thar $25 nor more than $50.' Those persons authorized to issue tickets for parking violations would As you are probably aware, legislation similar to this has been introduced over the past several years in the New York State Legislature. And as a demonstration of the opposition to the proposal, it has been scundly defeated in the Democratic TwO years agc this month, The Business Council met with Assemblyman Grannis (sponsor to the restrictive smoking propcsal) - to discuss this issue. To accommodate the Assemblyman's concerns, we agreed to reassess our position vis-a-vis a survey - The Dusiness Council of New rorx State Inc. 132 Washungton.Aue.. Albany NY. 12210 Telephone 518-465-7511 be responsible for enforcement. controlled Assembly the last two years. - mailing to our membership. 680531297 PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE 