Thompkins, Deidra L. From: Sent: To: Subject: Williard, JoAn M. Monday, September 14, 1998 7:46 AM Thompkins, Deidra L. RE: Storage for Doral Merchandising the gift certificates, certificates for trips. however, since there are enough membership certificates for everyone attending the celebration, am having them shipped to the warehouse, thinking that they will be put in the bags as they are assembled. there is not much monetary value associated with them, like there is with gift certificates. ihave asked Ihc to have the "paper things" in my hand by 1o/9. -Original Message- - From: Sent: To: Thompkins, Deidra L. Sunday, September 13, 1998 6:06 PM Williard, JoAn M. Subject: FW: Storage for Doral Merchandising sent to you? Let me know --Original Message- From: Sent: To: Ihave another question: are you going to have the gift certificates, the sports tickets and the one year memberships Thompkins, Deidra L. Sunday, September 13, 1998 5:58 PM Williard, JoAn M. Sublect: RE: Storage for Doral Merchandising Here is the address for shipping the electronic equipment: RJR Atlanta ROU 3010 Business Park Drive., Suite G Norcross, GA 30071 ATTN: Liane Waechter FAX: 770-729-3256 Please hold off on sending this address to the magazines until I contact Evan Toulon and get approval. Thanks -Original Message- From: Williard, JoAn M. Sent: Thursday, September 10, 1998 1:38 PM To: Thompkins, Deidra L Cc: Dutton, David (LHC) Subject: Storage for Doral Merchandising importance: High as you know, at the celebration status meeting yesterday we discussed where the doral merchandising items should be shipped. please refer to the document thati sent you earlier listing the items. the items under the trips/tickets column will be sent to me and liwill be sure you have them in hand no later than october 9. iwould suggest that the items under the miscellaneous column be shipped to the storage facility at the al freeman we had a discussion about the storage for the electronics items and you wanted to know the box size. iam not sure if our suppliers have this information, as they are most likely ordering the items through a supplier and most likely will not have the information available. we discussed having these items shipped to the sales office, as it is a secure facility and is being used to store the cigarettes. please ask the sales division how big their room is for storage, and then we can possibly use our logic to figure out if it will hold all these tv's etc. there will be 3 big screen tvs, 5 25" 21 vcrs, 3 camcorders, in addition to various other equipment. when look at the total picture, sales will red a double garage sized room at a minimum to hold all this merchandising. you in the meantime, will ahead and give Ihc the shipping address for the al freeman moving group for the misc. items and have them delghead to that address the week of october 5. is someone going to be working down there to check the items off as they are received? if not, then iwould suggest that we have the suppliers confirm back to un N with him. additionally, iwill find out how much they paid theme last year, and that will give you an estimate of cost. 0 moving group. Ihc when they have confirmed delivery of the merchandise. iam going to contact petersen, the magazine group who 9 A 9 o N us bodine last year and see if we can get in touch S 1 