that 25%, they would have approximately 70 % of the Canadlan market. It thereforo appears to me that not the last-submission has more favorable impact upon Imperial than the other companies. Itlooks to me that CTMC complying with RJR play right into Imporial's plan or that lack of submission actually helps Imperial. 6)We know that Imperial has conducted thelr own analyses as shown by prior submisslons. If their labs are running assays on their less than 1 % market share brands, Imperial can capture more share than above. It seems again that we are in a very weak strategic position by arguing that we cannot outlined June. In item 5 7)! recommend that Mike Borgerding prepare his linear calculation formulation to determine each comply oft these by calculalion and we submit thati in June. While it is not exactly In compliance with BC regulation, we could make analytes a significant argumont that it is an 'alternative method" (which Is allowed in BC) which can be supported technically. 8)1 imagine there is a BC or Canadian regulation which is similar to the US regulation on "False Statements Accountability". Most countries have them as part of general regulations which are applicable to information to the logislative, executive or judicial branches of government. In the US, persons anyone statements communicating, It can be interpreted that complalning to BC about other labs not being avallable to run the BC analyses is Other labs can run the required assays, either commercial labs or modification of company labs, when given misleading. sufficient money and time. The BC government certainly gave enough time, belng one year, but companies have not show due 9)1 am reminded of the circumstances 7 or 8 yoars ago when the Canadian industry made similar complaints of noncompliance regarding brand formulation disclosures. Thls complaining went on for almost a year. Canada came Into a meeting with the Canadian tobacco industry and demanded all formulations within Finally, 24 hours or all brands were to be removed from the market. The CTMC letter reminds me of the same tact taken the industry at that 10) The BC Health Minister is not a friend of the industry. She has doubled the penalties for non compliance, she has publicly stated that BC Is al the forefront of the world and Canada on tobacco regulation, she has placed the information on the internet, and she took the federal Canadian regulations and modified them for BC before Health Canada released them. All these items lead me to believe that we are very naive to think that BC will do anything but come after us for non and currently via are false or misleading can be prosecuted. making which diligence by providing the money to establish or modify existing laboratories. Health time. History does have a tendency to repeat itself if we do not learn from it. by compliance. This may mean by penalties or seizure of products from the market. -Original Mossago- From: Sent: To: Cc: Bob, Townsond, Dave E. Thursday, March 11, 1999 8:28 AM Suber,Robort Brexton, Paut; (Bob): Parks, Pepaaret Howard" Burger, Miko; Lloyd, Gary Robert. T. A. (Bob); Swaugor, James; McMenamin, Michael A. Subjecl: RE: Position Paper on Smoko Constituent Analysls Concerning your comments on the CTMC Position Paper: 1. I'm sure that there are several reasons youl have concluded that the position paper has "no real relevance" and implied that it has no purpose. Regardless, the paper is clear. It is not possible to comply with the B.C. 2. There are broader business reasons and technical reasons why standardized testing methodologies are essential. Just becauso regulatory agencies may not require standardized methods does not mean that we ignore these issues. Most importantly, without slandardized methods, companies will report constituent data that certainly have biases. This willl lead to assertions of differences among products when they don't exist, and may prevent assertions laboratory of differences for now products when they do exist. lt is a mistake to dump questionable data on anyone, including 3. While the tone of the Fine Cut section does seem negative, know that there are many issues that need to be worked out to ensure meaningful data. Your characterization o'au a complaining Industry is blased and unfair, and While I agree that the author (Massey) could have written thls position paper in a way that's more to the point, am perplexed thal with your knowledgo of the history of the B.C. issues, and other regulatory issues, you have missed the the time frame. The paper outlines some of the reasons for this conclusion. reporling within regulatory agencies. ignores technical work that has tried to move the situation forward point of the paper, and have an overly simplistic view of the issues. Dave Messago- To: From: Suber, Robert (Bob) Sent: Tuesday, March 09, 1999 2:16 PM Cc: Ra Braxion, Parks, Howard T. Subject: RE: Position Paper on Smoke Constituent. Analysis Miko; Lloyd, Robert A. (Bob); Townsend, Dave E.; Swauger, James; McMenamin, Michael A. Ido not agreo wilh the section on the standard methods. Regulatory agencies are not required to provide or define any method. The data provided to them should have a method referenced but it does not have to be a N 2 