Paulette Dennison 02/03/99 02:25 PM Cathy BNCALOUSMRUSEATEBAT SargentLouisville/US/BATQBAT Subject: Re: AWMA organization a To: cc: Cathy, Rolf POMAnLOHMBUSEATOEAT. Dennis CANLOUMMHRUSBATGBAT, Nancy Isent a letter on December 18th with the convention dates and times and a schedule at a glance. Ijust recently received confirmation from the hotels which I will be passing along to everyone shortly. Ihave been in contact with Chris Zizzi as to the set up times by Deckel and when they will be ready for the flexmaster to begin set up (begins at 8:00 am on the 23rd and should be ready for flexmaster set up by early afternoon). Imet with Tom Peterson and Chris yesterday to confirm the Carlton changes andl asked Chris what fiexmaster units would be used. He said he is still working on them at this time. The booth as have indicated to Chris is shipping on Feb. 19th. As far a ordering product, will be glad to order as soon as I am given the amount of product to order. Chris is also suppose to be contacting Gary Rein to see if he will be attending. I'm waiting on that also. have shirts and sweater vests being embroderied as we speak and they will be ready shortly. There are no customer dinners however, - am making reservations at different restaurants for the B&W personnel attending which will convey in the next communication - am preparing (hotel confirmations, booth schedule and agenda, etc). Ifyou have any other questions please don't hesitate to contact me directly. Paulette Cathy Barclay Cathy Barclay 02/03/99 10:12 AM To: CC: Rolf POMnLOMEAUSBATesAT, Nancy sargentLoulsville/US/BATQBAT, Rudy HAMBLOUHAUSBATGBAT, Paulette Dennison/LouisvillelISVIR-US/BAT@BAT Dennis CAMLuMIRAUSBATOBAT, Christopher ZizzULouisville/US/BATQBAT Subject: AWMA organization Dear. All----maybe I'm just partially out of the loop, but there seems to be as number of questions remaining about the AWMA convention.--If advise is available/ formulated, please advise accordingly. Booth Set up starts????date and time Booth Set up must be complete7??77date and time When will Deckel be ready for the 2010s to be set???? We have secure hotel rooms peginning when, for how many people??????? Are there adequate hotel rooms for how many people from my group?7?777what dates????? We are hoping to have the local Field assist in 2010 assembly and set up, sO need to arrange but don't Local cigt. purchase, delivery, pickup, and repacking and return needs to be arranged with local Field Do we have confirmation on the exact fixture configuration of brands??7??we likely won't have enough cigts. and/or materials to change this at the last minute unless we want to plan to accomodate this What are the needs for booth staffing??7what days77wnolfrequaite hotel room know timing of setup-- avaliblly77days/whor 221010062 PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE 