07/14/99 WED 16:15 FAX 202 466 6004 @002 Mignoni, Ellen From: Sent: To: Cc: Subject: Mignoni, Ellen Wednesday, July 14, 1999 4:45 PM Farr, Steve Chicago and few other updates Carolynjk levy@pmusa.com; Remy.lemandei@omusacom Corky and I had a good meeting in Chicago - but we have some work to do. A summary of our meeting follows: We met with: Dr. L. Watkins, Executive Assistant to the CEO's office Dr. LaVern Little, Coordinator Bulls Project/Middle Schocls Connie Benson, Reading Coordinator Transition/Middle Schools We walked through our general presentation. They generally agree that LST is a good program and that it would serve students well. They explained however, that acceptance of outside funds for any program would need to be voted on the Board of Trustees. In order to prepare a Board Report - which would outline the proposal and funding, we need to BAWIPMUSA needs to send a letter (addressed to Dr. Watkins) outlining the following - (Corky is drafting) the following: 1. Ddo why the companies are doing this why LST was chosen why Chicago the level of funding how the funds will be used what the companies expectations are of the school district how the companies will use their support to Chicago - 2. They are checking with their legal department to ensure that accepting funds from the industry would not violate any current policies. specifically asked if they have a policy against taking tobacco funds and was told no. 3. They are going to review the program with their representatives from Safe and Drug Free schools, the curriculum 4. We need to return to do a presentation for the folks listed above (tentative date is August 5) and to answer of their questions. The decision will be made at that meeting as to whether to move: ahead with a Board I will fax to you information on the Board as well as background on individuals within the CEO's office. think we should schedule a conference call to determine what support we have in Chicago before this moves to the Board. spoke to Mike Herman in TN. He said that basically things are on hold until the new Commissioner is named. He expects that an announcement will be made within the next 2 weeks, at which point we will probably need to wait is a little settled and determine how to move forward. Mike will contact me with any updates. Evaluation: Dale Mann- who will submit a proposal is the only person I heard from that plans to submit Laura from Rand called and said that given the timeframe she did not think they can respond. try to determine what time frame they could respond in. I will do that Iwill also Henry contact suggested the other specialists; the head of schools nurses, and specialized training. and for report ask a vote of the Board. Other updates: 1. until the individual 2. Hamilton that! call her and candidates to find outif they are planning to submit a proposal, 1 JUL 14 1999 17:36 202 466 6004 PAGE. 02 208004370 PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE 