Fan Chen 11/28/2000 09:39. AM To: cc: Scott Appleton/Macon/uATQBAT, Brian KoDerts/Macon/usONUSIBATQBAT John IAMEDAAMERNUSEATGSAT, George KAMRTMACOUSBAT@BAT. Sharon Boyse/Macon/uBAT, BWI RD Hold@BAT Subject: News 112800 (B): Passive smoking and Micronutrients in the blood animal fats than did persons living in households with no smokers. Attached news demonstrated that non-smokers living with smokers tend to have lower serum concentrations of the anti-oxidants alpha- and beta-carotene, as well as total carotenoid found in many vegetables and This study could not suggest whether passive smoking deplete antioxidant micronutrients or nonsmokers living with smokers tend to have poor diet which caused lower level of antioxidant in serum. If further study reveal that passive smoking depletes anti-oxidant micronutrients, then it will put some weight on the hypothesis that passive smoking is harmful. On the other hand, if further studies demonstrated that lower level of anti-oxidant was caused by poor diet among non-smokers living with smokers, than it will help to explain why some studies showed the risk of passive smoking. In that case, poor diet itself could be confounding factor in previous study on ETS. attachment Johns Hopkins School of Public Health: Passive Smoking Linked to Lower Levels of Some Micronutrients in the Blood BALTIMORE, Nov. 27 U.S. Newswire' - In a study that asked whether exposure to passive smoking was associated with reduced blood levels of micronutrients, rescarchers from the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health have found that nonsmokers living with smokers tended to have lower serum concentrations of the anti-oxidants alpha- and beta-carotene, as well as total carotenoid the yellow-to-red pigments found in many vegetables and animal fats that are convertible to vitamin A than did persons living in households with no smokers. The study appeared in the American The associations between passive smoking and adverse health outcomes have generated longstanding controversy. The present study helps narrow the debate by showing significant links between passive smoking and lowered blood levels of the antioxidant carotenoid. Antioxidant nutrients protect human cells from damage caused by free radicals, highly reactive oxygen compounds "Passive household smoke exposure was associated with lower serum concentrations of total carotenoid, alpha- and beta-carotene, and a particular carotenoid known as cryptoxanthin, said lead author Anthony Alberg, PhD, MPH, assistant professor, Epidemiology, the. Johns Hopkins School of Public Health. "The fact that these are the micronutrients already known to be significantly reduced in active smokers indicates that the associations we found with passive smoking are probably genuine. The rescarchers analyzed frozen blood samples collected in 1974 Journal of Clinical Nutrition. circulating in the body. 431113949 431113949 PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE 