Jordan Bresslti/L.orllard/MLBA 08/21/2002 11:51 AM To CC bcc Steven WatsonVLorllardMLBA Subject NBA and Lonillard Issue Joint Statement The attached statement (also included as plain text below) has been released today by Lorillard and the National Basketball Association: FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 21, 2002 NBA. LORILLARD TOBACCO COMPANY ISSUE JOINT STATEMENTTO ADDRESS TERMINATION OFNBA HOOP-IT-UP SPONSORSHIP Greensboro, N.C. - Aug. 21, 2002 - The National Basketball Association and Lorillard Tobacco Wc arc issuing this joint statcment to clarify thc circumstances surrounding the termination ofLorillard's Youth Smoking Prevention Program s sponsorship of the NBA's nationwide Hoop-It-Up baskctball Controversy over the sponsorship midway through the tournament created a climate that detracted from both Lorillard's educational effort and the NBA 's event. As a result, the NBA requested, and Lorillard According to thc NBA's Scnior Vicc Prcsident of Communications Tim Andrec: "What started out as a unique opportunity to educate kids about saying n0 to smoking was undermined by negative publicity about Lorillard' S Youth Smoking Prevention Program. In turn, this created unwanted controversy for both the NBA and Lorillard Tobacco Company, which led to our decision to discontinue the association. "By cnding our relationship, wC did not intend to cast the reputation ofLorillard's Youth Smoking Prevention Program in a nogative light, and wC regret thc abrupt manner in which WU terminated thc Lorillard Vice President of External Affairs Steve Watson added: "We appreciate the NBA S concerns regarding unwanted controversy and share their regret that an educational program to prevent youth smoking would be undermined by organizations who claim to support this cause. "At Lorillard, our position is clcar - smoking is an adult choicc. and kids should ncver smokc, In fact. since 1998 alone, we have spent more than $50 million on our voluntary Youth Smoking Prevention Program - a nationwide, multifaceted effort that is unique in its approach and has received critical acclaim for its effectiveness. Lorillard Tobacco Company will continue to participate in the nationwide effort to reduce youth smoking, and will seek out venues in which we can communicate this important message. "Wc find it particularly disturbing that groups such as Campaign for Tobacco-Frcc Kids and the Amcrican Legacy Foundation have begun a campaign to discrodit and sprcad misinformation about our cfforts in this area. We believe our effective and highly successful program speaks for itself and we take our Company have issued the following joint statement: tourament. agreed, to discontinuc the sponsorship. sponsorship, : Andrcc said. responsibilities very seriously, a Watson said. ## # # FOR MORE INFORMA TION: Steve Watson, Vice President, External Affairs, Lorillard Tobacco Company (336) 335-7713; Tim Andree, Senior Vice President, Commuications, National Basketball 81839584 