Strange with the exception ofwhat I pointed out, most of the site should be active with navigational links working (they work on our PCs). Please could you give me an example of a couple of the links which do not work on your PC and TII lave Larsen look into it. Thanks -----Original Messagc---- From: jbressler@lortobco.com Imale.beslerglenake.com Sent: Thursday, July 05, 2001 2:22 PM To: Williams, Hugh (BSMG) Subject: Re: Updated 2take10.com Staging Site I think you should check back with Larson Interactive beforc Ir revicw this. Upon cntcring the site, I immediatcly tricd to click on scveral linked items. with no avail. The oncs Itried included the "Scnd a Postcard" option from parcnting resources - as well as the other options on that page. Why don't you send me a review copy when ALL items are active and working Right now, I think it would just be pointless to do SO. "Williams, Hugh (BSMG)" <hwilliamsazbsmg. com> on 07/05/2001 03:18:31 PM cc: "Lorillard - Adam" Gspalbrsmemyont.suveloms, "Homburger, Katy "Lorillard - John Roth" gpothzmenyonk.ouzal.om. "Lorillard Courtncy Hamill" chamillainewyork.bozcll l.com> Subject: Updated 2takel0.com Staging Site To: Jordan Brcssier/Lonllard/MBAQMLBA (BSMG)" Khompurgerabsmgcom, Abraham, Alex (BSMG)" <AAbrahumabsmg.com>, Hi Jordan Attached is a link to the updated 2take10.com staging site for your review. We are still working on a few minor navigational items (eg. link to "ask Popkin") as well as a few other minor edits: Copy to be placcd in "Parcnt Survey" box on home pagc Font on "Take 10 Tour" and "Media Corner" pages t0 be changes Content to be placed in photo/video archive page of "Take 10 Tour" section Contact information to be placod al bottom of"Contact Us" page We will continue to do cditing swecps, but the site is csscntially in its final form. Pleasc revicw the site and let us know your thoughts. Once wC receive your leedback and make any necessary changes, we will again forward you a link to the site for a final revicw before our July 20 launch. 81867963 