Kent Mills/Lorillard/MLBA 04/22/2002 07:08 AM To Steven Watson/Lorillard/MLBAGMLBA Jordan Bressler/Lorilard/MLBAQMLBA CC Bob KmiNConledMLBAZMLBA boc Subjoct Anti Youth Smoking Per our conversation it appears that due to the relationship we have established with "Hoop ItUp" we will not have any interest in sponsoring a local event! Ifl am wrong on this or we would like to sponsor a Local High School 4th of July shoot-outfor 16 Varsity Boys basketball teams or a Christmas Toumey this December using the Anti Youth Smoking Campaign please let me knowl How about in the future ifwe continue to sponsor "Hoop Itl Up" we allow Lorillard Employees and there children the opportunity to play under the "Tobacco is Whacko if your a teen" flag. We would pay the entry fee and provide jerseys etc etc. Ithought this might be a nice perk for our employee's that porticipate in this type of event in which we are a mojor/national sponsor! Have either of you had a chance to look into the info that was sent to you from Wesley Chapel High concerning the contest? Hope all is welll Have a nice weekl Forwarded by Kent Mils/Lorillard/MLBA on 04/22/02 06:52 AM Kent Mills Kent Mills 04/09/02 07:10 AM To: Steven' Watsor/Lorillard/MLBAZMLBA CC Subject: Anti Youth Smoking Iwanted to knowi if you believed we could draw any interest in sponsoring a 3 on 3youth basketball tourney in the spirit of "Hoop itup"le am in the grass root: stage of putting together a 3 on 3 event overLabor dayweekend as a fund raiser and thought this might tweak your interest as an "Tobacco is Whacko" supported campaignl If On another note, am not sure what happened on the school and student submissions - spoke with you aboutin Dec and Jan. according to them they submitted it to the Chicago fimm and another copy to Greensboro but to no thought ofyou a few weeks ago. went to see the Heat and the Sixers! This was the first time Thad seen Ierson play in person he can not be more than 155 Ibs! Buti just like our world, Quickness, Timing and just good it goes well maybe this could be a way to spread our message?1?1? What do you think? avail. Maybe they just did not like there ideas and they simply lost? old fashion work effort can beat most people and or firms! Hope this e-mail finds you in good health and spirit! Thanks for taking the time to consider this ideal Talk with you soonl Kent Mills 81887430 