Steven Milloy <milloy@cais.net on 12/27199 10:35:52 AM To: ce: milloy@cais. com (bcc: Sharon BoyselouswiRe(US-BAT) Subject: Upcoming study: Tobacco still a major problem among teens says Heart Association British American Tobacco Special Security Notice Millennium Viruses - Beware Attachments are the main carriers of viruses. Viruses can cause enormous damage to our Information Technology which could even result in complete system shutdown and loss of business data. File attachments from external sources In the period 1 - 19 December 1999, when it is assessed that risks of virus attachments will increase, you are requested to delete attachments if in doubt of the trustworthiness of the source. In the period 20 December 5 January when the risks are critical, all file attachments will be automatically removed. For business critical communication use either email text or make Beyond 6th January please follow same precautionary actions as period 1 19 December 1999 until all risks have been assessed and you are advised to revert back to normal operations. Please bear with the inconvenience. t is in the interest of the Company. EMBARGOED FOR RELEASE: 30 DECEMBER 1999 AT 16:00 ET US Tobacco still a major problem among U.S. teens and around the globe, DALLAS, Dec. 30. - The president of the. American Heart Association today called attention to two alarming trends in tobacco use: Smoking is on the increase among US. teens and smoking-related deaths around the globe Anyone who sees these statistics should be very concerned," says American Heart Association President Lynn Smaha, M.D., Ph.D., referring to data included in the 2000 Heart and Stroke Statistical Update, an annual Already. smoking IS blamed for about 1 in 5 deaths from cardiovascular diseases, Smaha says. An estimated 430,700 Americans die Smoking costs U.S. residents an estimated $130 billion annually in medical care. This includes costs related to smoking during pregnancy, alternative arrangements (e.g. fax). according to American Heart Association statistical update are expected to triple in the coming century. report released today. each year from smoking-related ilinesses. 190246231 PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE 