Townsend, Davo E. From: Sent: To: Cc: Subjoct: Deborah --Original Mossago-- From: Sont: To: Cc: Subjoct: RE: EWFF Ponco, Deborah Tuesday, Juno 08, 1999 10:36 AM Townsend, Dave E. Subor, Roborl (Bob) RE: EWFF In answer to your question, it is truc. Botly Smith is bringing up copics of the E-mail messages. Townsend, Dave E. Tuesday, June 08, 1999 10:26. AM Penco, Deborah Suber, Robort (Bob) Thanks, Deborah. would approciato a copy of the email messages. market 1)before the launch and 2) before these emails during March, 1997? Is it truo, then, that noither you nor anyone else in SRA (as far as youl know) knew that RJR launched a FF EW in test Thanks for your help, Deborah --Original Mossage-- From: Ponce, Deborah Sont: Friday, Juno 04, 1999 2:25 PM To: Townsend, Davo E. Cc: Suber, Robort (Bob) Subjoct: RE: EW FF Davo, Dave On March 7, 1997, I asked Denny Potter by E-mail If the EWWinston Select product was still being sold in the Oklahoma market. (At the time the Winston Improvement Team was about to launch "MM".) lalso asked Denny if a full flavor EW product had ever boen test marketed or launched. By return E-mall, Denny said "Yes" to both questions and elaborated that EW products represented nearly a fulll line of non menthol offerings under the Winston Selecl name (FF, Lt, 85 and 100mm, soft pack, box and slims). Iforwarded this E-mailto Jeff Gentry with a question as to whether or not any mainstream smoke chemistry data were generated for the FF and other configurations. Joff forwarded to me the FF 85 mainstream smoko chomistry data on March 18, 1997. That is all I have. --Origlnal Mossago-- From: Sont: To: Penco, Doborah Cc: Suber, Robert Subjoct: Deborah, to this. Dave Townsend, Dave E. Friday, Juno 04, 1999 1:41 PM Eoper Suber said at a meeting this morning that SRA was not aware, at the time, that RJR launched the FF EW in Oklahoma. He said you have "documentation" in your files. would like to see anything you have that speaks Thanks for your help, Deborah. N L 1 