Mar-02-98 13:47 From- +2023470505 T-635 P.03/07 F-544 WACHTELL, LIPTON, ROSEN & KATZ The Honorable John F. Kerry The Honorable Richard H. Bryan February 27, 1998 Page 2 discuss the important economic and legal reasons why the civil liability provisions were incorporated in the June 20 agreement. joined via a telephone hook-up. The briefing was tape recorded. During the session, David Rosenbaum of The New York Times asked Some reporters attended the briefing in person, others me the following question: "It sounds to me as if what you're saying is, if you don't get protection from lawsuits, then you're going to return to having cartoon characters in ads and celebrities, and continue to have billboardads, and you're going to do all things that you've said in the settlement, you've agreed in the settlement not to do. After repeating the question for reporters who were "There are certainly going to be some things that the industry will continue doing that critics of the industry would not like to have going on. I can't tell you what they will be. And each company is going to have to reach that decision individually. (Emphasis As is plain from the relevant excerpt of the transcript Is that a correct interpretation?" participating by telephone, I answered: added.) (which I enclose), I did not discuss any specific advertising or marketing practices the industry might continue if there is no legislated tobacco settlement. None of the companies is currently using cartoon advertising and I spoke only of the industry continuing to do some of the things it is currently and wairly that I had cited cartoon characters. It was therefore wrong for USA Today to claim that I had opened the possibility of a return to the use of cartoon characters. I would further note that none of the other reporters who attended the briefing wrote about the alleged "warning" that USA Today m.sunderstanding by one newspaper about my remarks was the testimony Tuesday A the tobacco company chief executive officers that they would not use cartoon characters in the future. doing. It was the USA Today reporter who inferred, incorrectly cited. I hope you will agree that more important than this 8 - )  