1 Forillard LORILLARD, INC. Research Center, 420 English Street, P.O: Box 21688, Greensboro, North Carolina 27420-1688 November 14, 1986 Dr. Raymond M. David Microbiological Associates Inc. 5221 River Rd. Bethesda, MD 20816 Dear Ray: We have received your letter with the photocopied pages de- scribing a non-parametric multiple comparison test. This test is similar to one described in Zar's Biostatistical Analysis (1984), but Zar's descriptions and explanations for the use of this and other tests appear more thorough and comprehensive. I have enclosed his chapter on "Multiple Comparisons" and several tables required to determine the significance of the tested data. Over the past two months we have been reviewing the statistical procedures used in our studies and are requiring all of our laboratories to implement changes in statistics where needed. Several involve the use of the multiple comparison procedures Franklin and I have just completed a review of the statistical tests employed in the Six-Week Inhalation Study and have the (1) We feel that a post hoc procedure other than multiple Mann-Whitney U-tests would be more appropriate after statistically significant Kruskal-Wallis tests. The chapter from Zar (1984) describes a Tukey-type nonparametric multi- ple comparison test which appears very similar to the one you recently sent us. Zar also describes alternative tests which are used when sample sizes are equal or if tied ranks are present. We can discuss which test we will use after (2) Because percent carboxyhemoglobin measurements are part of the criteria for determination of a valid test, it is important only to demonstrate that each individual smoke- exposed group exhibits statistically greater percent COHb values compared to the sham group. * In other words, a non-parame tric multiple treatment vs. one control test is required. Zar describes a non-parametric equivalent of Dunnett's Test (p.201) which can be used for this purpose. We have a computer program (Fortran) which can perform this enclosed. following comments: you have looked them over. test if it is compatible with your system. 