TIIE COUNCIL FoR TOBACCO RESEARGI U. S. A. Dr. T. C. Tso U. S. Department of Agriculture 3 October 14, 1964 that such smoke really functions in humans as a direct chemical carcinocen. lence we have not folt that major efforts to reduce further the infinitesimal levcls of polymuclear hydrocarbons in smoke were likely to be productive of any real benefits. If others, however, wish to try removing, diminishing or neutralizing the possible effects of such substances on the basis of what they believe to be justifiable assumptions, and provided that any modificetions proposed can be shown clearly to produce no other change potentially deleterious to health, we could not disapprove. At present the Limitations of our bioassay methods make such assurance difficult. We could give other illustrat tions in addition to this discussion of possible carcinogenicity, such, for example as ciliostasis, but thc general perspective is much the sare made, to the specific cases of the components suggested in your list as candidates for analytical study in tobacco leaf samples. We would applaud the ecquisition of information on all these ingredients a5 additic ons to the stock-pile of knowledge that should eventually be useful in one manner or another. But there js no possiole assurance at present that any of these will ever turn out to be significantly have felt that these were quite unlikely to bear any rclation to the health picture. The reason for this feeling is that no such additives are used in Britain where the incidencc of diseases held to be relatcd statistically to cigaretto smoking is, nevertheless, much You will be able to apply the general statements that we have related to health problems. In the spccial case of additives to cigarette tobacco, we - higher than in the United States. The Council will be glad to be kept in touch with the procram of the U, S. Department of Agriculture and the National Cancer Institute by correspondence and by personal contact. Inturn we shall be glad to furnish those agencies with any desired data or informat tion from our own program either now or in the future. Sincerely, Ccfitis Dr. Clarence Cook Little The Scientific Director CCL:gib Enclosure cc: Dr. B. T. Shaw - U. S. Department of Agriculture 