Effectively requiring U.S. manufacturers to adhere to domestic performance standards mandated by the FDA in their international exports. If the FDA banned or limited nicotine, or limited tar, the ban or limit would also apply to export products again without regard to what foreign Imposition of an arbitrary tax of $1.00 per 1,000 cigarettes on all exports and foreign sales. For example, any one of our international company's 's Italian products manufactured and sold only in The Bill's international provisions would effectively destroy our international company's ability to compete abroad with foreign manufacturers not subject to these restrictions and required payments. We are disappointed that the June 20th agreement apparently cannot, in the present political environment, be enacted. An opportunity for our company and the public has been lost by the failure of the political system to address the issues in a fair and responsible debate. We will, of course, continue to work toward reasonable solutions to the problem of youth smoking. With respect to ongoing litigation, we will continue to act in the best interests of our stockholders and will defend or settle suits as appropriate. We must all recognize, however, that the present legislative and litigation environment is very uncertain and could result in major adverse consequences for our competitors could sell. Italy would be subject to this tax. company or require significant changcs in its policies and practices. Philip Morris will now apply its energies to oppose the McCain Bill because of the devastating impact it would have on our company, our stockholders, our employees, customers, retailers, consumers, suppliers, growers, and others. Were the Bill to be enacted in its present form, we would refuse to sign on to provisions requiring our consent and would challenge the legality of the Bill in the courts. We ask that you, our stockholders, join us in our efforts to defeat this or any other damaging legislation and to help return the debate about tobacco issues to a rational discussion of sensible policy alternatives. If you agree with me that the McCain Bill, or similarly punitive legislation, should be rejected, I urge you to communicate your views to the President, your Senators, and your House Representative. Ifyou would like information as to the address or tele- phone number ofyour elected representatives, please call 1-888-609-9300. Yours sincerely, ChonBicu Geoffrey C. Bible 4 TI3148-9005 