Mr. E. D. Rains May 19, 1988 Page 2 Traffic Department records, including but not limited to freight bills, bills of lading, and claims-related files, prior to the date of sale (April 26) will be shipped to Greensboro for disposition. As I recall, you felt fairly certain that documents in this area have been destroyed Financial records: All records pertaining to cigarettes April 25, 1988 and prior are the property of Lorillard. We are extremely interested in those records involving the closing of cigarette production in 1985, all write-offs, ATF records, payroll records, return goods records, auditor records, operations analysis records, invoices, profit sharing records, fixed assets records, invoices, among other financial records Gene, as you know, we reached the conclusion, and you and I have already scheduled a date, that it would be best for Jerry Richardson and I to come to Louisville relative to the financial records, working with you and Alan Minsterketter to resolve disposition questions in this area. As you and I discussed by phone, we feel confident that we have the nec cessary purchasing records in Greensboro as we have copies of all purchase orders here. At this time, we do not feel it imperative to obtain copies of the M&R parts purchase orders prepared in Louisville, nor do we feel it is necessary to have copies of the contracts negotiated on a local, branch level by Louisville. For instance, the elevator service is locally negotiated and we feel, at this juncture, that it is not necessary to have a copy of that contract; if, in the future, a liability should accrue to Lorillard in that context, we feel certain that National would cooperate with us in allowing us to obtain the appropriate paper rwork. If you have any difficulties in this area, please On May 16, Bernie Head advised that he will forward to your attention four (4) boxes of Plant Engineering records which represent all the applicable Engineering records in Greensboro which are National's property. Regarding R&D, copies of Lorillard's Product Development Department work As advised by Mr. Tedder, I will be the records liaison between Greensboro and Louisville. As I understand my role, if National requires copies of informa tion, the appropriate person from National should contact me; if the reverse is true, I will contact the appropriate individual at National. I understand the National contact to be: John Todd - Personnel; for all years prior to 1985. contained at Louisville. SO advise me during my visit on Monday, May 23. will be forwarded as soon as possible to Al Feige. Gene Rains  All other areas. 